Dhakarey et al.
Rice JA and Drought Tolerance
Root Proteome Analysis Supports cpm2
A
Adaptation to Drought
1000
Root peptide extracts from cpm2 and WT plants under control
and severe drought were subjected to mass spectrometry analysis
800
using high-throughput Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) approach.
600
Out of 15,172 spectra obtained in total, 13,485 referred 4,573
peptides. Of these, 4,194 hits were designated to unique peptides,
400
which amounted to the combined identification of a total of
1,578 proteins in WT and cpm2 roots. Out of these, 351 and
200
341 proteins were unique to WT and cpm2 roots, respectively,
whereas 443 proteins were common in both the genotypes
(Figure 5A). However, the number of unique proteins with
control
moderate
severe
dependable quantitative estimates was 272 and 217 for WT and
cpm2, respectively, and 319 as common proteins (Figure 5B). In
B
order to filter out JA-dependent and -independent proteins, a
500
comparison between control and drought conditions was carried
out within one genotype (WT or cpm2, respectively).
400
A wide range of isoelectric points (4.41-11.91) and molecular
weights (4.4-236.7 kDa) implicated a dynamic range of proteins.
300
Proteins from both the genotypes were assigned to 32 functional
categories using MapMan (Thimm et al., 2004) as per the rice
200
mapping file (Figure S4)
The AOC protein was highly abundant in WT but as expected,
100
it was not found in cpm2 (Figure 6A). Lack of AOC protein
0
was nevertheless not directly related to its transcript abundance.
control
moderate
In fact, under moderate or severe drought, AOC transcript was
severe
abundant in cpm2 as compared to the WT (Figure 6B). Under
well-watered condition, the WT contained nearly 2-fold more
FIGURE 3 The level of ABA (Abscisic Acid) in (A) shoots and (B) roots of
AOC transcript than cpm2. The AOC transcripts in cpm2 are
cpm2 and wild type (WT) under control, moderate, and severe drought stress.
thus either not translated, or the protein may have been highly
Three-week-old WT and cpm2 seedlings were either kept well-watered, and
unstable, and the mutational frame-shift in the coding sequence
the control plants were sampled at day22, or watering was stopped to initiate
leading to an undesirable protein may account for that. In
moderate and severe stress conditions. Shoot and root samples were
contrast to AOC, the oxo-phytodienoate reductase (OPR7), an
harvested in control, moderate and severe stress condition, respectively. WT
and cpm2 are represented by blue and red bars, respectively. Data represents
enzyme operating downstream of AOC (Tani et al., 2007), was
mean value t standard error (SE); n = 5. Star (*) denote statistical significance
more abundant in cpm2 under drought (Figure 6A). The OPR7
(P 0.05), respectively, between the two genotypes in a Student's t-test.
transcript levels were also observed to be significantly higher in
WT than in cpm2. However, under moderate and severe drought
stress no significant difference in the expression of OPR7 was
observed (Figure 6C).
both plant types by nearly 50% compared to control condition,
Apart from such differences owing to the mutation, many
whereby severe drought stress inflicted more drastic reduction
proteins showed substantial up- or down-regulation (difference
than moderate stress (Figure 4B). Thus, cpm2 did not exhibit a
of log ratio of 1.0) and were classified as DAPs between the WT
comparative advantage in nodal and lateral root length under
and the mutant plant. Several of such proteins could be assigned
severe drought. A similar profile was observed for other root
to categories responsive to drought. These categories, the genes
traits such as, the sum of all root lengths (Figure 4C) and the
therein and their protein abundance status in the WT and cpm2
total number of root forks and tips (Figures 4D,E). However,
are summarized in Table 1. The potential importance of such
in all these aforementioned root traits a significant advantage
DAPs in the apparent adaptation of cpm2 to drought is described
was observed in cpm2 plants under control conditions and
in the "Discussion" section.
this advantage was further maintained during moderate stress
conditions compared to WT. Also, in cpm2, maximum root
depth (Mrd) exceeded that of the WT in all the treatments
Cell Wall Metabolite Analysis Supports
(Figure 4F). However, this difference in Mrd between WT
Root Phenotype and Proteome-Based
and cpm2 became smaller with increasing severity of drought
Inferences
stress. Under severe drought stress the difference was no longer
As mentioned above, cpm2 root traits such as more branching,
statistically significant. These results highlighted that overall
increased total root length and root depth exhibited a genotypic
cpm2 exhibited a more branched root system than the WT both
advantage which was maintained under stress. This was
under control and drought conditions (Figure S3).
supported by root proteome-based information, mainly on the
Frontiers in Plant Science www.frontiersin.org
6
November 2017 Volume 8 Article 1903
