frontiers
ORIGINAL RESEARCH
published: 10 November 2017
in Plant Science
doi: 10.3389/fpls.2017.01903
Check for
updates
Physiologica and Proteomic Analysis
of the Rice Mutant cpm2 Suggests a
Negative Regulatory Role of
Jasmonic Acid in Drought Tolerance
Rohit Dhakarey Manish L. Raorane 1,2. Achim Treumann3
Preshobha K. Peethambaran', Rachel R. Schendel4, Vaidurya P. Sahil, Bettina Hause5,
Mirko Bunze/4, Amelia Henry2, Ajay Kohli2 and Michael Riemann
Molecular Cell Biology, Institute of Botany, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Karlsruhe, Germany, International Rice
Research Institute, Los Banos, Philippines, Newcastle University Protein and Proteome Analysis, Newcastle University,
OPEN ACCESS
Newcastle Upon Tyne, United Kingdom, Department of Food Chemistry and Phytochemistry, Institute of Applied
Biosciences, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Karlsruhe, Germany, Cell and Metabolic Biology, Leibniz Institute of Plant
Edited by:
Biochemistry, Halle, Germany
Karl-Josef Dietz,
Bielefeld University, Germany
Reviewed by:
It is widely known that numerous adaptive responses of drought-stressed plants are
Kyung-Min Kim,
stimulated by chemical messengers known as phytohormones. Jasmonic acid (JA) is
Kyungpook National University,
one such phytohormone. But there are very few reports revealing its direct implication in
South Korea
Xiuli Hu,
drought related responses or its cross-talk with other phytohormones. In this study, we
Henan Agricultural University, China
compared the morpho-physiological traits and the root proteome of a wild type (WT) rice
*Correspondence:
plant with its JA biosynthesis mutant coleoptile photomorphogenesis 2 (cpm2), disrupted
Michael Riemann
michael.riemann@kit.edu
in the allene oxide cyclase (AOC) gene, for insights into the role of JA under drought. The
mutant had higher stomatal conductance, higher water use efficiency and higher shoot
Specialty section:
ABA levels under severe drought as compared to the WT. Notably, roots of cpm2 were
This article was submitted to
Plant Abiotic Stress,
better developed compared to the WT under both, control and drought stress conditions.
a section of the journal
Root proteome was analyzed using the Tandem Mass Tag strategy to better understand
Frontiers in Plant Science
this difference at the molecular level. Expectedly, AOC was unique but notably highly
Received: 30 June 2017
abundant under drought in the WT. Identification of other differentially abundant proteins
Accepted: 20 October 2017
Published: 10 November 2017
(DAPs) suggested increased energy metabolism (i.e., increased mobilization of resources)
Citation:
and reactive oxygen species scavenging in cpm2 under drought. Additionally various
Dhakarey R, Raorane ML,
proteins involved in secondary metabolism, cell growth and cell wall synthesis were also
Treumann A, Peethambaran PK,
Schendel RR, Sahi VP, Hause B,
more abundant in cpm2 roots. Proteome-guided transcript, metabolite, and histological
Bunzel M, Henry A, Kohli A and
analyses provided further insights into the favorable adaptations and responses, most
Riemann M (2017) Physiological and
likely orchestrated by the lack of JA, in the cpm2 roots. Our results in cpm2 are discussed
Proteomic Analysis of the Rice Mutant
cpm2 Suggests a Negative Regulatory
in the light of JA crosstalk to other phytohormones. These results together pave the path
Role of Jasmonic Acid in Drought
for understanding the precise role of JA during drought stress in rice.
Tolerance. Front. Plant Sci. 8:1903.
doi: 10.3389/fp/s.2017.01903
Keywords: jasmonates, rice, drought, root, proteomics, phytohormones, cross-talk
Frontiers in Plant Science www.frontiersin.org
1
November 2017 Volume 8 Article
1903
