Dhakarey et al.
Rice JA and Drought Tolerance
or greater (2-fold more) was used as a criterion for comparative
chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection (HPAEC-
abundance of the protein in one genotype. Conversely, proteins
PAD) as described in Schafer et al. (2016).
having log ratios lower than 1.0 (2-fold less) were considered
comparatively less abundant.
Histology of Root Tissue
WT and cpm2 seedlings were grown in a phytochamber
Quantitative Reverse Transcriptase PCR
(BBC York, Mannheim, Germany) as described above. Root
(qRT-PCR) Analysis of Selected Genes
samples were harvested for control and severe stress (SMC
Primer3 was used for designing the primers (listed in Table S1)
15%) treatments. Using a hand microtome, thin sections of 25-
and the subsequent procedures related to RNA extraction; cDNA
30 um thickness were taken from the center of basal and axial
synthesis and qRT-PCR were performed as illustrated in Raorane
ends of roots from WT and cpm2 plants grown normally and
et al. (2015b). OsCyclophilin-2 was employed as the housekeeping
under drought stress conditions. Sections were stained in 1%
gene for all the qRT-PCR analysis (Pabuayon et al., 2016).
(w/v) phloroglucinol in 18% hydrochloric acid (HC1), mounted
with water on a glass slide and observed using an Axioskop
Quantification of Endogenous ABA and
microscope (Zeiss GmbH, Jena, Germany) equipped with a 20x
Jasmonate Levels in Shoot and Root
objective. Pictures were taken using a CCD camera (AxioCam,
Zeiss) attached to the microscope.
Samples
ABA and jasmonates were quantified from shoot and root
Statistical Analysis
samples as described by Balcke et al. (2012). In brief, about
Representation of individual plants of a genotype within
50 mg of frozen plant material was homogenized and extracted
each sample and the number of replicates for each
with 500 ul pure methanol supplied with [2H6] ABA, [2H5]
analysis/measurement are given in the figure legends. Student's
OPDA, [2H6] JA, and [2H2] JA-Ile (50 ng each) as internal
t-test was performed for testing the statistical significance of the
standards. After centrifugation, the supernatant was diluted with
calculated mean values, with a significance level of P 0.05 and
9 volumes of water and subjected to solid phase extraction on
subsequent graphs were plotted using GraphPad Prism version
HR-XC (Chromabond, Macherey-Nagel) column. Elution was
7 (GraphPad Software, La Jolla California USA). The ASReml
done with 900 ul acetonitrile. Ten micro liter of the eluate was
script was used as a repeated measures analysis across all dates
subjected to ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem
for WUE using 3.3.1 (R Core Team, 2016). The underlying
mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) according to Balcke et al.
statistical model was WUE~Treatment Genotype DAS.
(2012). The contents of ABA, OPDA, JA, and JA-Ile were
calculated using the ratio of analyte and internal standard peak
RESULTS
heights.
Increased Adaptive Response of cpm2
Root Cell Wall Monosaccharides and
Morpho-Physiology to Drought
Hydroxycinnamic Acids Analysis
cpm2 and WT plants raised for 4 weeks were subjected to drought
Sampling material grown at the IRRI greenhouses (for targeted
stress. After withholding water for 2 days, response to drought
metabolite analysis) was used for these measurements. Further
became apparent in the WT plants through leaf rolling, mainly
milling of the frozen root samples was done to <0.5 mm (IKA
in the upper reaches of the leaves, despite apparently stronger
mill or porcelain mortar with dry ice). Milled samples were
culms, compared to cpm2 (Figures S2A,B). At the end of day
stored in the freezer (-44C) for subsequent monosaccharides
four, WT leaves developed symptoms of wilting In contrast the
and hydroxycinnamic acids analyses. Destarched cell wall
upper reaches of the cpm2 leaves remained open and appeared
material was isolated and purified (digestion with thermostable
turgescent while still the well-developed culm of the WT gave
a-amylase and amyloglucosidase and precipitation of non-
the impression of a stronger plant (Figures S2C,D). These initial
starch polysaccharides in 80% ethanol). Ester-linked oligo-
results obtained with plants in the phytochamber were further
ferulates (dimers and trimers) were quantified in the destarched
confirmed by greenhouse studies in tropical latitudes.
cell wall material following alkaline hydrolysis NaOH,
The apparent adaptation of cpm2 to drought was borne out
18h), acidification, extraction with diethyl ether, and LC-ESI-
by other parameters. For example, the cpm2 plants had a higher
MS/MS separation and detection (negative ionization with triple-
water use efficiency (WUE) before drought stress was initiated as
quadrupole mass analyzer). Internal standard quantification
compared to WT (0.23 unit higher in cpm2 in ASReml). However,
was performed using 5-5-methyl-diferulic acid. Ester-linked
with progressive drought stress, WUE in cpm2 plants was even
monomeric trans-ferulic and trans-p-coumaric acids (FA and
higher than in those of WT (0.28 units higher in cpm2 in ASReml)
pCA respectively) were also determined in the alkaline
and the difference increased persistently till day 14 after the onset
hydrolysates, but were detected and quantified via external curves
of drought (Figure 1). Consistently, the p-value for the genotype
using an inline UV detector (320 and 307 nm detection wave
effect became lower under drought conditions as well.
lengths for trans-ferulic and trans-p-coumaric acids respectively)
Additionally, in 4 weeks old plants, similar stomatal
coupled to the LC-MS/MS system. Monosaccharide analysis
conductance was observed for cpm2 and WT plants under
of the destarched cell wall material was performed after
control conditions (Figure 2 2A). However, under drought
sulfuric acid hydrolysis using high-performance anion-exchange
condition, the overall stomatal conductance in cpm2 showed less
Frontiers in Plant Science www.frontiersin.org
4
November 2017 Volume 8 Article 1903
