Dhakarey et al.
These results raise two important questions. First, how can
upregulation of JA synthesis genes under drought be reconciled
with its proposed role as a negative regulator of drought
tolerance?, the latter ascertained from morpho-physiological
responses and root proteome indicators in cpm2 that lacks JA.
Possibly, increase in JA content under drought upregulates some
JA responsive genes (JRG) that are negative regulators of drought
tolerance. Hence lack of JA in cpm2 does not upregulate the
negative regulators of drought tolerance. For example, one of the
JRGs, chlorophyllase 1 (CLH1) is a senescence associated gene
(Sasaki et al., 2001) the upregulation of which may not be useful.
JA induced natural senescence in maize has been reported (Yan
et al., 2012) Additionally, the complex crosstalk of JA with other
plant hormones such as ABA, salicylic acid (SA) and ethylene
may dictate its final effect. For example, another JRG highlighted
by Sasaki et al. (2001) is a SA-glucosyltransferase, which can
inhibit SA signaling while SA is known to be important in abiotic
stress tolerance (Pedranzani and Vigliocco, 2017) Also, recently
Liu and Avramova (2016) reported that JA was not able to induce
any of the dehydration response genes tested but it potentiated
ABA-dependent genes. Thus JA crosstalk to other hormones may
underpin the drought response rather than a direct relationship
between its upregulation and action. Second, under the lack of
AOC protein and hence the suspected lack of 12-OPDA, the
substrate for OPR7, how OPR7 can be upregulated? Potentially
the transcription and translation of downstream OPR7 gene
was not dependent on the product of AOC activity (12-OPDA).
Similar to our results in Figure S11, detectable amounts of OPDA
and JA remained in the maize single mutants for OPR7 as
observed by Yan et al. (2012) who speculated other members of
the OPR gene family to be responsible for low but measurable
amounts of JA in the opr7 mutant. However, similar results
of detectable OPDA and JA synthesis in the mutants of two
different genes for JA synthesis, in two different crops, present
an intriguing scenario and suggest unexplored cryptic regulation
of JA biosynthesis. It must be noted that OPDA and JA content
in the WT roots under drought was as low as that of the
cpm2 (Figures S11D,E). This suggested that the comparatively
decreased contents of OPDA and JA in cpm2 under the control
conditions had some effect rather than the drought-mediated
decrease per se. Finally, since hormone levels are transient it is
possible to have missed the critical time points during which
alterations could be detected. Nevertheless, from the proteomic
evidence, it can be speculated that in the WT roots, owing to
the abundance of AOC but scarcity of the downstream OPR7,
OPDA is accumulated This speculation is also in agreement with
the findings of Savchenko et al. (2014). Moreover using cpm2
and corresponding WT for a study on salinity stress, Hazman
et al. (2015) reported that an increase in OPDA content in
WT was perceived as a damage signal. We observed similar
increase in the OPDA amounts at least in the shoots of the WT
during severe stress condition (Figure S11A), but in order to
further validate this finding at the metabolite level in drought
stressed roots, further quantification of jasmonates must be
conducted at the more precise and early time point after onset
of stress.
Frontiers in Plant Science www.frontiersin.org
Rice JA and Drought Tolerance
November 2017 Volume 8 Article 1903
Conclusions and the Proposed Role of JA
in Response to Drought
In cpm2, the response to drought stress at the initiation of
water deficit condition was much faster than in the WT, as also
evident from its lower stomatal conductance. Overall, the mutant
displayed a better fitness to combat drought stress conditions
through effective activation of stress-preventing mechanisms that
further led to its better sustenance under drought.
In summary, in comparison to the WT, cpm2 exhibited:
(1) morpho-physiological adaptations to drought through lower
stomatal conductance (at the onset of stress), higher ABA
levels and higher WUE.
(2) Better root system under control and drought conditions as
revealed by WinRHIZO based measurements.
(3) Comparative root proteome analysis supported a better
status of cpm2 roots in terms of more efficient ROS
scavenging, more abundance of cell wall-modifying, energy-
generating, and water-saving enzymes/proteins.
(4) Transcript and protein abundance data in the
phenylpropanoid pathway suggested an increase in
the biosynthesis of phenolics and/or lignin in cpm2.
Moreover, cell wall metabolite analysis revealed a unique
profile for cpm2 under drought stress. However, in the
future quantitative measurements of the lignin polymer
composition (monolignol ratios and linkage types within
the polymer) will be necessary to further validate these
observations.
(5) In the WT shoots, OPDA levels were found to be higher
under severe drought. Similarly, in the WT roots, based on
proteomic results OPDA is speculated to be accumulated
due to high abundance of AOC and scarcity of OPR7. These
observations are in agreement with the previous findings of
Savchenko et al. (2014) and Hazman et al. (2015), however
this finding for drought also needs to be further validated
at metabolite level in the roots wherein, more early time-
point samples need to be collected after the start of stress
treatment-to further detect immediate and direct changes
in these hormones. Additionally, potential hormone crOSS-
talk was implicated through our study, which warrants
further research, namely that ABA may need JA for stomatal
closure and that JA effects may be modulated through the
involvement of SA.
All of the aforesaid attributes allowed cpm2 to optimize its growth
in response to a water deficit condition and to further withstand a
prolonged drought stress. Presently, it is not possible to define the
exact mechanisms controlling better drought responses in cpm2.
However, based on the integration of root proteome, metabolite
and morpho-physiological data, we can rather propose the key
molecular players involved in the better sustenance of cpm2
during drought. We believe that the results presented in this
study are a key in further advancements toward understanding
the precise role of JA during drought stress tolerance and also the
molecular mechanisms involved. Thus, we conclude that drought
response of cpm2 implicated JA as a negative regulator of root
growth and overall drought tolerance.
13
