Dhakarey et al.
Rice JA and Drought Tolerance
transport inside eukaryotic organisms (Zhao et al., 2014) and
compared to the control (Figure S10). The arabinose/xylose ratio
determination of the orientation of cellulose fibrils in the cell
is an indicator of the degree of substitution of the arabinoxylan
wall (Schmit and Nick, 2008). B-Tubulin-1 was reported as
polymer backbone, which has been shown to be reduced in
more abundant in cpm2 (Figure 8) Likewise, an actin nucleation
drought-stressed plants (Rakszegi et al., 2014). Contrary to our
protein, which acts in cell elongation, cell shape maintenance,
expectations based on the protein biosynthesis data, drought-
and polarized growth of root hair (Ramachandran et al., 2000)
stressed cpm2 roots showed reduced biosynthesis of both ester-
was also more abundant in cpm2 (Figure Upregulation of the
linked ferulic acid monomers (Figure 7B) and the oligoferulates
microtubule components under drought in rice roots has been
(dimers and trimers) involved in cell-wall crosslinking compared
reported earlier (Raorane et al., 2015b,a).
to the control (Figure S6). Drought stress also resulted in fewer
diferulates in the WT roots compared to the control (Figure
DAPs in Phenylpropanoid Pathway Increased Cell
S6B). Both osmotic stress and ABA have been previously shown
Wall Modification in cpm2
to reduce ester-linked ferulate and diferulate content in wheat
Water deficiency modulates the expression of lignin biosynthesis
coleoptiles (Wakabayashi 1997a,b). The results indicate that
genes (Santos et al., 2015). Of the nine identified DAPs related
rice roots respond to drought stress by loosening cross-links in
to cell wall biosynthesis and remodeling, six encompass lignin
the cell wall, to become more flexible. However, JA might inhibit
biosynthesis and five of these belong to the phenylpropanoid
this response, as WT roots show a weaker decrease in those
biosynthetic pathway (Table Such DAPs more abundant
crosslinking metabolites under drought stress.
in cpm2 were OsPAL1, Os4CL3, OsCAD4, OsCOMT1, and
Discrepancies in the results expected for the cpm2 cell walls
OsCCOAOMT (Figure 8, Figure S5), and these are crucial for
from more abundant DAPs for phenylpropanoid and ferulate
lignin biosynthesis in rice plants (Gui et al., 2011; Hirano et al.,
pathways could potentially be ascribed to alternate uses of the
2012; Koshiba et al., 2013; Yoon et al., 2015; Wang et al., 2017).
secondary metabolite products of the enzymes involved. For
Transcript analysis of these genes revealed some interesting
example, the phenylpropanoid pathway involving chorismate
trends. OsPALI increased in both genotypes under moderate
and shikimate could be directed to salicylic acid (SA) synthesis,
stress, but under severe stress it was similar in wild type and
which like JA is perhaps equally but antagonistically involved in
cpm2 (Figure S8A). The Os4CL3 transcript was more abundant in
drought response (Pedranzani and Vigliocco, 2017).
cpm2 under moderate and severe drought (Figure S8B) while the
OsCOMT1 transcript was similarly upregulated in cpm2 under
Lower Abundance of DAPs for Aquaporins in cpm2
moderate stress but was not significantly different under severe
Could Influence Root Water Status Positively
stress (Figure S8C). Taken together, the transcript and protein
Plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIP), a subfamily of
abundance data in the phenylpropanoid pathway suggested an
aquaporins comprising two subgroups of PIP1 and PIP2 could
increase in the biosynthesis of phenolics and/or lignin (Vincent
also influence root water status. PIP2 proteins could be attributed
et al., 2005; Fan et al., 2006; Phimchan et al., 2014) in cpm2.
for enhanced water channel activity (Chaumont et al., 2000). In
Since coumarates are also known to be incorporated into the
the present study, OsPIP1 was less abundant in cpm2 (Figure 8)
lignin structure, increased lignin in cpm2 suggested increased
Reduced expression of some of the PIP genes could lead to
coumarates. The level of esterified p-coumarates was higher
inhibition of water loss by preventing backflow of water to dried
under drought in the WT but not in cpm2 (Figure 7A).
soil (Afzal et al., 2016) Moreover, down-regulation of PIP genes
Phloroglucino staining for lignifications also showed increase
transcription was also reported in the roots of tobacco (Mahdieh
in lignin in the WT root section but not in cpm2 (Figure S9).
et al., 2008) and also in the twigs and roots of olive plants (Secchi
To resolve the discrepancy in cpm2 between the potentially
et al., 2007).
increased biosynthesis of phenolics/lignin but relatively lesser
lignin content visualized through phloroglucinol, quantitative
estimation of the changes in the lignin polymer composition
Impaired AOC Function Useful for Drought
(monolignol ratios and linkage types within the polymer) will
Tolerance
be conducted in future, because phloroglucinol best stains
Drought stress apparently upregulates the JA biosynthetic
cinnamaldehydes (Adler, 1977) while the extent of lignin
pathway as evident at the transcript and protein level in
crosslinking can affect visualization by phloroglucinol (Pomar
our study and in earlier reports in rice (Du et al., 2013).
et al., 2002). The increase of the elastic modulus but reduced
In the root proteome analysis AOC was unique and highly
plastic extensibility of the cell wall under drought (Blum, 2011)
abundant under drought in the WT (Figure 6A). Moreover, we
is caused in part by augmented cross-linking of arabinoxylans
also found 12-OXOPHYTODIENOATE REDUCTASE (OPR7),
to each other and lignin via free-radical-induced oxidative
another protein downstream of AOC in the JA biosynthesis
coupling of phenolics like lignin monomers and ferulates (Fan
pathway, was more abundant under drought in cpm2 roots
and Neumann, 2004; Fan et al., 2006).
(Figure 6A). However, when comparing OPDA, JA, and JA-Ile
p-Coumaric acid is also found ester-linked to arabinoxylans
levels between WT and cpm2 shoots and roots under control,
just like ferulic acid (Mueller-Harvey et al., 1986). No significant
moderate and severe stress, minor differences were found, except
difference in the arabinose/xylose ratio was found in the cpm2
in the OPDA levels in WT shoots during severe stress (Figures
roots' cell wall material under drought in contrast to WT, which
S11A-F). Even though the amounts detected for these hormones
had a lower arabinose/xylose ratio in the drought-stressed roots
under our specific experimental conditions were rather low.
Frontiers in Plant Science www.frontiersin.org
12
November 2017 Volume 8 Article 1903
