Dhakarey et al.
measured with a portable-type porometer (Decagon Devices,
USA) for 4 consecutive days after withholding water and for
2 consecutive days after rewatering at noon on the youngest
fully-expanded attached leaf on the plants of the same age (five
sub-replicates)
Root Architecture and Water Use
Efficiency (WUE) Analysis Setup
Root architecture and WUE experiments were conducted in the
greenhouse at the IRRI. For the root architecture study, seedlings
germinated as described above were planted in small (40 cm
height, 4 cm in diameter, 502.6 cm3) cylinders filled with dry,
sterilized and sieved soil to a bulk density of cm-3 Soil
moisture treatments of control (100% of field capacity) 75%
of field capacity and dry-down to 50% of field capacity were
applied as described by Henry et al. (2015) Five replicates of
each genotype were planted for each soil moisture treatment.
Plants were scouted regularly to guard against insect or pathogen
infestations; sticky fly paper traps were also suspended between
the cylinders to keep away insects. Roots were harvested,
subjected to washing in order to remove the dirt and soil
prior to their storage in 75% ethanol for further analysis using
WinRHIZO (Regent Instruments, Quebec, Canada).
Similarly, for apparent WUE measurement, WT, and cpm2
seedlings were planted in large cylinders (95 cm in height,
20 cm in diameter, 29.81) which were filled with dried soil
previously brought from an upland IRRI farm and were arranged
in randomized complete block design. Additional sterilized soil
was filled at the top of each cylinder. Ten plants of each genotype
were planted in 20 large cylinders placed inside a concrete tank
(1.35 m deep, 3.5 m wide, and 6.8 m in length) inside the naturally
ventilated greenhouse. All cylinders were equally watered twice
a day to keep them watered but not flooded. Complete fertilizer
was also applied as per Kijoji et al. (2012) 1 day after transplanting
Drought stress (DS) was imposed on five plants of each genotype
at 32 days after sowing by draining water from the designated
cylinders and by withholding further addition of water in them.
The top of the cylinders were then covered with polythene
sheets to curtail direct evaporation, SO that only water loss by
transpiration was measured. Remaining cylinders belonging to
the control treatment were kept watered using the target weight
to maintain the soil moisture level at field capacity, which was
established by weighing at day 36 after sowing. DS cylinders were
not watered for the remaining time. Digital imaging of shoots and
weighing of each cylinder was performed three times per week
using the system described by Kijoji et al. (2012) for 4 weeks after
imposing drought stress. Using image J software (NIH, USA)
with an integrated macro language, leaf area was estimated from
digital images and divided by the water uptake rate to calculate
apparent WUE.
Plant Materials, Growth, and Stress
Conditions for Root Proteome, ABA, Cell
Wall Metabolite, and Transcript Level
Analysis
Sampling material for experiments related to root proteome,
transcript and selected metabolite analysis were raised in the
Frontiers in Plant Science www.frontiersin.org
Rice JA and Drought Tolerance
November 2017 Volume 8 Article 1903
naturally ventilated greenhouses at IRRI during the 2014 and
2015 dry season. WT and cpm2 seedlings generated as described
above were then transferred to plastic pots (20 cm in diameter)
filled with autoclaved soil (previously collected from IRRI upland
farm). All pots were equally watered by providing 200 ml twice a
day for 1 week and then separated into "control" and "stressed"
categories. For the control treatment, plants were watered but not
flooded, and their entire roots and shoots were sampled at day
22. For drought-stressed plants, watering was stopped to initiate
moderate and severe stress condition. Volumetric soil moisture
content (SMC) in the drought-stress treatment was monitored by
ML3 Theta Probe soil moisture sensor (Delta-T Devices, London,
UK; one per replicate). The entire root and shoot was sampled
for "stressed" treatments as soon as SMC reached 30 and 15%
for moderate and severe stress, respectively, and were instantly
frozen in liquid nitrogen. Soil particles were removed from the
root samples prior to their storage in liquid nitrogen.
Protein Extraction, Separation, Tryptic
Digestion, and TMT Labeling
Frozen root samples from WT and cpm2 were used for total
protein extraction. Subsequently, a modified trichloroacetio acid
(TCA, Merck, USA) method was used for protein extraction.
Frozen root samples (~250 mg were crushed to a fine powder
in a pre-cooled mortar with liquid nitrogen. Afterwards, the
powder was transferred to a 1.5 ml pre-chilled Eppendorf tube
and then following extraction procedure was performed: (i) 700
ul of freshly prepared 10% TCA in acetone with 0.07% DTT
DL-Dithiothreitol, Merck, USA) was added to the tubes. The
tubes were then placed at -80C for lh, and then centrifuged
in a pre-cooled rotor at 13,000 for 10 min at 4C (Beckman
Allegra 64R preparative centrifuge, USA). (ii) The supernatant
was discarded and the pellet was re-suspended in 700 ul of
freshly prepared pre-cooled 10% acetone with 0.07% DTT. The
suspension was further stored at -80C for 30 min, prior to
centrifugation in a pre-cooled rotor at 13,000 for 10 min
at 49C. This step was repeated twice. The supernatant was
discarded and the pellet was then air-dried for 45 min in a
laminar hood at room temperature (~24C). The resulting pellet
was then re-suspended in 700 ul solubilizing buffer containing
9M urea, 1% DTT, 4% CHAPS (3-[(3-Cholamidopropyl)
dimethylammonio]-1-propane sulfonate), 35 mM Tris base,
5
uM EDTA (Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid), 1 uM PMSF
(phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) and 10 ul of protease inhibitor
cocktail solution (Merck, USA). Afterwards, the samples were
centrifuged at 13,000 for 5 min at room temperature and the
resulting supernatant with the proteins was collected into a
clean Eppendorf tube. The proteins were run through SDS-PAGE
under denaturing conditions (Laemmli, 1970). The subsequent
in-gel digestions of proteins, TMT labeling and Nano-LC-MS/MS
analysis were performed as previously published (Raorane et al.,
2015a). For overview, refer to Figure S1.
Protein Identification, Functional
Annotation, and Evaluation
Protein identification and their functional annotation was
performed as described by Raorane et al (2015a). For the proteins
common to both WT and cpm2 roots, a threshold of log ratio 1.0
3
