Dhakarey et al.
A
1000
800
600
400
200
B
500
400
300
200
100
0
FIGURE 3 The level of ABA (Abscisic Acid) in (A) shoots and (B) roots of
cpm2 and wild type (WT) under control, moderate, and severe drought stress.
Three-week-old WT and cpm2 seedlings were either kept well-watered, and
the control plants were sampled at day22, or watering was stopped to initiate
moderate and severe stress conditions. Shoot and root samples were
harvested in control, moderate and severe stress condition, respectively. WT
and cpm2 are represented by blue and red bars, respectively. Data represents
mean value t standard error (SE); n = 5. Star (*) denote statistical significance
(P 0.05), respectively, between the two genotypes in a Student's t-test.
both plant types by nearly 50% compared to control condition,
whereby severe drought stress inflicted more drastic reduction
than moderate stress (Figure 4B). Thus, cpm2 did not exhibit a
comparative advantage in nodal and lateral root length under
severe drought. A similar profile was observed for other root
traits such as, the sum of all root lengths (Figure 4C) and the
total number of root forks and tips (Figures 4D,E). However,
in all these aforementioned root traits a significant advantage
was observed in cpm2 plants under control conditions and
this advantage was further maintained during moderate stress
conditions compared to WT. Also, in cpm2, maximum root
depth (Mrd) exceeded that of the WT in all the treatments
(Figure 4F). However, this difference in Mrd between WT
and cpm2 became smaller with increasing severity of drought
stress. Under severe drought stress the difference was no longer
statistically significant. These results highlighted that overall
cpm2 exhibited a more branched root system than the WT both
under control and drought conditions (Figure S3).
Frontiers in Plant Science www.frontiersin.org
Rice JA and Drought Tolerance
November 2017 Volume 8 Article 1903
Root Proteome Analysis Supports cpm2
Adaptation to Drought
Root peptide extracts from cpm2 and WT plants under control
and severe drought were subjected to mass spectrometry analysis
using high-throughput Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) approach.
Out of 15,172 spectra obtained in total, 13,485 referred 4,573
peptides. Of these, 4,194 hits were designated to unique peptides,
which amounted to the combined identification of a total of
1,578 proteins in WT and cpm2 roots. Out of these, 351 and
341 proteins were unique to WT and cpm2 roots, respectively,
whereas 443 proteins were common in both the genotypes
(Figure 5A). However, the number of unique proteins with
dependable quantitative estimates was 272 and 217 for WT and
cpm2, respectively, and 319 as common proteins (Figure 5B). In
order to filter out JA-dependent and -independent proteins, a
comparison between control and drought conditions was carried
out within one genotype (WT or cpm2, respectively).
A wide range of isoelectric points (4.41-11.91) and molecular
weights (4.4-236.7 kDa) implicated a dynamic range of proteins.
Proteins from both the genotypes were assigned to 32 functional
categories using MapMan (Thimm et al., 2004) as per the rice
mapping file (Figure S4)
The AOC protein was highly abundant in WT but as expected,
it was not found in cpm2 (Figure 6A). Lack of AOC protein
was nevertheless not directly related to its transcript abundance.
In fact, under moderate or severe drought, AOC transcript was
abundant in cpm2 as compared to the WT (Figure 6B). Under
well-watered condition, the WT contained nearly 2-fold more
AOC transcript than cpm2. The AOC transcripts in cpm2 are
thus either not translated, or the protein may have been highly
unstable, and the mutational frame-shift in the coding sequence
leading to an undesirable protein may account for that. In
contrast to AOC, the oxo-phytodienoate reductase (OPR7), an
enzyme operating downstream of AOC (Tani et al., 2007), was
more abundant in cpm2 under drought (Figure 6A). The OPR7
transcript levels were also observed to be significantly higher in
WT than in cpm2. However, under moderate and severe drought
stress no significant difference in the expression of OPR7 was
observed (Figure 6C).
Apart from such differences owing to the mutation, many
proteins showed substantial up- or down-regulation (difference
of log ratio of 1.0) and were classified as DAPs between the WT
and the mutant plant. Several of such proteins could be assigned
to categories responsive to drought. These categories, the genes
therein and their protein abundance status in the WT and cpm2
are summarized in Table 1. The potential importance of such
DAPs in the apparent adaptation of cpm2 to drought is described
in the "Discussion" section.
Cell Wall Metabolite Analysis Supports
Root Phenotype and Proteome-Based
Inferences
As mentioned above, cpm2 root traits such as more branching,
increased total root length and root depth exhibited a genotypic
advantage which was maintained under stress. This was
supported by root proteome-based information, mainly on the
control
moderate
control
moderate
severe
severe
6
