Dhakarey et al.
A
WT
351
B
WT
FIGURE 5 Venn diagrams of proteins obtained after TMT (Tandem Mass Tag)
analysis. 4, ,194 hits were assigned to unique peptides leading to combined
identification of a total of 1,578 proteins in wild type (WT) and cpm2 roots (A)
351 and 341 proteins were uniquely identified in WT and cpm2 roots,
respectively, while 443 proteins were common to both. (B) Number of proteins
quantified were 272 and 217 unique ones in WT and cpm2, respectively, with
319 common proteins.
may be an effect of greater root length and branching in cpm2.
Increase in ABA content under drought is known to be related to
stomatal closure in leaves, which increases WUE (Gowing et al.,
1990; Zhang and Davies, 1990; Gomes et al., 1997). In fact, the
different accumulation of ABA in the shoots of the WT and cpm2
are in agreement with the differences observed in their stomatal
conductance (Figures 2, 3A). One could anticipate that due to
the high ABA concentration in cpm2 stomatal closure could even
be more pronounced as we could observe in our measurements.
One explanation for this could be that ABA may need interaction
with JA to stimulate stomatal closure (Daszkowska-Golec and
Szarejko, 2013). Since cpm2 lacks JA, the stomata may not
have been affected to the degree expected despite the increase
in ABA. One possibility for a limited effect of ABA under the
lack of JA could be the fact that JA upregulates ABA receptor
genes (Lackman et al., 2011), which could thus be limiting in
cpm2.
Frontiers in Plant Science www.frontiersin.org
Rice JA and Drought Tolerance
November 2017 Volume 8 Article
1903
Despite the antagonistic features, cpm2 survived severe
drought stress better than the WT. Higher stomatal conductance
as well as higher WUE under drought was noted before in some
genotypes of peanuts, where root length density was positively
correlated to WUE (Songsri et al., 2013). Limiting vegetative
growth also increases WUE. The cpm2 plants showed reduced
culm development (Figure S2D), which is also supported by
lower shoot dry weight under drought in cpm2 (Figure S7).
Overall, through the aerial morpho-physiologica parameters of
leaf rolling, WUE, stomatal conductance, and ABA content as
well as the root architecture of increased branching indicated that
cpm2 plants had a better potential to tolerate drought.
Root Proteome-Based Insights into
Drought Tolerance by cpm2
A more branched root system as in the case of cpm2 (Figure 4,
Figure S3) may provide a significant advantage to counter
drought as seen by cross-validating a near isogenic line (NIL)
and a transgenic line in field samples of a large-effect QTL for
yield under drought (Dixit et al., 2015; Raorane et al., 2015a).
During drought stress, the root is the primary organ to sense
water scarcity in drying soil, triggering a cascade of responses at
morpho-physiological, biochemical, and cellular levels (Sengupta
et al., 2011) Hence comparative proteomic studies on roots were
undertaken. Adaptive growth of the cpm2 roots under drought
was evidently supported through various DAP categories.
DAPs in ROS Scavenging Enzymes Are More
Abundant in cpm2
Two glutathione-S-transferases (GST; OsGSTF2, and
OsGSTU12) were more abundant in cpm2 (Figure 8) GSTs
are well known for their role in detoxification of xenobiotics,
they also work as antioxidants by tagging and removal of
oxidative degradation products, especially from fatty acids
and nucleic acids (Moons, 2005). GSTs may also act as
glutathione peroxidase to directly scavenge peroxides (Frova,
2003). Also, ascorbate peroxidase (APX) participates in
ascorbate-glutathione cycle, and hence is functional in free
radical detoxification (Cramer et al., 2013). In cpm2, the
OsAPX7 was also more abundant (Figure 8) Both glutathione
(GSH) and ascorbate (AsA) are also important non-enzymatic
antioxidants for plant defense against oxidative stress (Foyer and
Noctor, 2005). In cpm2, some other proteins with antioxidant
activities were also more abundant. Under various abiotic and
biotic conditions in plants, serine hydroxymethyltransferases
reportedly participate in dissipative mechanisms to curtail the
production of ROS (Moreno et al., 2005). Their antioxidant
activity may also be related to the serine-glycine-glutathione
synthesis pathway. One serine hydroxymethyltransferase,
OsSHMT2, was more abundant in cpm2 (Figure Similarly, a
DJ-1 family protein was also more abundant in cpm2 (Figure 8).
They are known to possess antioxidant property reportedly
through detoxifying glyoxal/methyl-glyoxal (Ghosh et al., 2016),
and accelerated cell-death is also reported due to their loss of
function (Xu et al., 2010). A 3-isopropylmalate dehydrogenase
(3-IPMD) was also more abundant in cpm2 (Figure 8). This
enzyme is involved in leucine and glucosinolate biosynthesis
cpm2
cpm2
443
319
217
341
272
8
