Dhakarey et al.
Rice JA and Drought Tolerance
measured with a portable-type porometer (Decagon Devices,
naturally ventilated greenhouses at IRRI during the 2014 and
USA) for 4 consecutive days after withholding water and for
2015 dry season. WT and cpm2 seedlings generated as described
2 consecutive days after rewatering at noon on the youngest
above were then transferred to plastic pots (20 cm in diameter)
fully-expanded attached leaf on the plants of the same age (five
sub-replicates)
filled with autoclaved soil (previously collected from IRRI upland
farm). All pots were equally watered by providing 200 ml twice a
Root Architecture and Water Use
day for 1 week and then separated into "control" and "stressed"
categories. For the control treatment, plants were watered but not
Efficiency (WUE) Analysis Setup
flooded, and their entire roots and shoots were sampled at day
Root architecture and WUE experiments were conducted in the
22. For drought-stressed plants, watering was stopped to initiate
greenhouse at the IRRI. For the root architecture study, seedlings
moderate and severe stress condition. Volumetric soil moisture
germinated as described above were planted in small (40 cm
content (SMC) in the drought-stress treatment was monitored by
height, 4 cm in diameter, 502.6 cm3) cylinders filled with dry,
ML3 Theta Probe soil moisture sensor (Delta-T Devices, London,
sterilized and sieved soil to a bulk density of cm-3 Soil
UK; one per replicate). The entire root and shoot was sampled
moisture treatments of control (100% of field capacity) 75%
for "stressed" treatments as soon as SMC reached 30 and 15%
of field capacity and dry-down to 50% of field capacity were
for moderate and severe stress, respectively, and were instantly
applied as described by Henry et al. (2015) Five replicates of
frozen in liquid nitrogen. Soil particles were removed from the
each genotype were planted for each soil moisture treatment.
root samples prior to their storage in liquid nitrogen.
Plants were scouted regularly to guard against insect or pathogen
infestations; sticky fly paper traps were also suspended between
Protein Extraction, Separation, Tryptic
the cylinders to keep away insects. Roots were harvested,
Digestion, and TMT Labeling
subjected to washing in order to remove the dirt and soil
Frozen root samples from WT and cpm2 were used for total
prior to their storage in 75% ethanol for further analysis using
protein extraction. Subsequently, a modified trichloroacetio acid
WinRHIZO (Regent Instruments, Quebec, Canada).
(TCA, Merck, USA) method was used for protein extraction.
Similarly, for apparent WUE measurement, WT, and cpm2
Frozen root samples (~250 mg were crushed to a fine powder
seedlings were planted in large cylinders (95 cm in height,
in a pre-cooled mortar with liquid nitrogen. Afterwards, the
20 cm in diameter, 29.81) which were filled with dried soil
powder was transferred to a 1.5 ml pre-chilled Eppendorf tube
previously brought from an upland IRRI farm and were arranged
and then following extraction procedure was performed: (i) 700
in randomized complete block design. Additional sterilized soil
ul of freshly prepared 10% TCA in acetone with 0.07% DTT
was filled at the top of each cylinder. Ten plants of each genotype
DL-Dithiothreitol, Merck, USA) was added to the tubes. The
were planted in 20 large cylinders placed inside a concrete tank
tubes were then placed at -80C for lh, and then centrifuged
(1.35 m deep, 3.5 m wide, and 6.8 m in length) inside the naturally
in a pre-cooled rotor at 13,000 for 10 min at 4C (Beckman
ventilated greenhouse. All cylinders were equally watered twice
Allegra 64R preparative centrifuge, USA). (ii) The supernatant
a day to keep them watered but not flooded. Complete fertilizer
was discarded and the pellet was re-suspended in 700 ul of
was also applied as per Kijoji et al. (2012) 1 day after transplanting
freshly prepared pre-cooled 10% acetone with 0.07% DTT. The
Drought stress (DS) was imposed on five plants of each genotype
suspension was further stored at -80C for 30 min, prior to
at 32 days after sowing by draining water from the designated
centrifugation in a pre-cooled rotor at 13,000 for 10 min
cylinders and by withholding further addition of water in them.
at 49C. This step was repeated twice. The supernatant was
The top of the cylinders were then covered with polythene
discarded and the pellet was then air-dried for 45 min in a
sheets to curtail direct evaporation, SO that only water loss by
laminar hood at room temperature (~24C). The resulting pellet
transpiration was measured. Remaining cylinders belonging to
was then re-suspended in 700 ul solubilizing buffer containing
the control treatment were kept watered using the target weight
9M urea, 1% DTT, 4% CHAPS (3-[(3-Cholamidopropyl)
to maintain the soil moisture level at field capacity, which was
dimethylammonio]-1-propane sulfonate), 35 mM Tris base,
established by weighing at day 36 after sowing. DS cylinders were
5
uM EDTA (Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid), 1 uM PMSF
not watered for the remaining time. Digital imaging of shoots and
(phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) and 10 ul of protease inhibitor
weighing of each cylinder was performed three times per week
cocktail solution (Merck, USA). Afterwards, the samples were
using the system described by Kijoji et al. (2012) for 4 weeks after
centrifuged at 13,000 for 5 min at room temperature and the
imposing drought stress. Using image J software (NIH, USA)
resulting supernatant with the proteins was collected into a
with an integrated macro language, leaf area was estimated from
clean Eppendorf tube. The proteins were run through SDS-PAGE
digital images and divided by the water uptake rate to calculate
under denaturing conditions (Laemmli, 1970). The subsequent
apparent WUE.
in-gel digestions of proteins, TMT labeling and Nano-LC-MS/MS
analysis were performed as previously published (Raorane et al.,
Plant Materials, Growth, and Stress
2015a). For overview, refer to Figure S1.
Conditions for Root Proteome, ABA, Cell
Wall Metabolite, and Transcript Level
Protein Identification, Functional
Analysis
Annotation, and Evaluation
Protein identification and their functional annotation was
Sampling material for experiments related to root proteome,
transcript and selected metabolite analysis were raised in the
performed as described by Raorane et al (2015a). For the proteins
common to both WT and cpm2 roots, a threshold of log ratio 1.0
Frontiers in Plant Science www.frontiersin.org
3
November 2017 Volume 8 Article 1903
