Dhakarey et al.
or greater (2-fold more) was used as a criterion for comparative
abundance of the protein in one genotype. Conversely, proteins
having log ratios lower than 1.0 (2-fold less) were considered
comparatively less abundant.
Quantitative Reverse Transcriptase PCR
(qRT-PCR) Analysis of Selected Genes
Primer3 was used for designing the primers (listed in Table S1)
and the subsequent procedures related to RNA extraction; cDNA
synthesis and qRT-PCR were performed as illustrated in Raorane
et al. (2015b). OsCyclophilin-2 was employed as the housekeeping
gene for all the qRT-PCR analysis (Pabuayon et al., 2016).
Quantification of Endogenous ABA and
Jasmonate Levels in Shoot and Root
Samples
ABA and jasmonates were quantified from shoot and root
samples as described by Balcke et al. (2012). In brief, about
50 mg of frozen plant material was homogenized and extracted
with 500 ul pure methanol supplied with [2H6] ABA, [2H5]
OPDA, [2H6] JA, and [2H2] JA-Ile (50 ng each) as internal
standards. After centrifugation, the supernatant was diluted with
9 volumes of water and subjected to solid phase extraction on
HR-XC (Chromabond, Macherey-Nagel) column. Elution was
done with 900 ul acetonitrile. Ten micro liter of the eluate was
subjected to ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem
mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) according to Balcke et al.
(2012). The contents of ABA, OPDA, JA, and JA-Ile were
calculated using the ratio of analyte and internal standard peak
heights.
Root Cell Wall Monosaccharides and
Hydroxycinnamic Acids Analysis
Sampling material grown at the IRRI greenhouses (for targeted
metabolite analysis) was used for these measurements. Further
milling of the frozen root samples was done to <0.5 mm (IKA
mill or porcelain mortar with dry ice). Milled samples were
stored in the freezer (-44C) for subsequent monosaccharides
and hydroxycinnamic acids analyses. Destarched cell wall
material was isolated and purified (digestion with thermostable
a-amylase and amyloglucosidase and precipitation of non-
starch polysaccharides in 80% ethanol). Ester-linked oligo-
ferulates (dimers and trimers) were quantified in the destarched
cell wall material following alkaline hydrolysis NaOH,
18h), acidification, extraction with diethyl ether, and LC-ESI-
MS/MS separation and detection (negative ionization with triple-
quadrupole mass analyzer). Internal standard quantification
was performed using 5-5-methyl-diferulic acid. Ester-linked
monomeric trans-ferulic and trans-p-coumaric acids (FA and
pCA respectively) were also determined in the alkaline
hydrolysates, but were detected and quantified via external curves
using an inline UV detector (320 and 307 nm detection wave
lengths for trans-ferulic and trans-p-coumaric acids respectively)
coupled to the LC-MS/MS system. Monosaccharide analysis
of the destarched cell wall material was performed after
sulfuric acid hydrolysis using high-performance anion-exchange
Frontiers in Plant Science www.frontiersin.org
Rice JA and Drought Tolerance
November 2017 Volume 8 Article 1903
chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection (HPAEC-
PAD) as described in Schafer et al. (2016).
Histology of Root Tissue
WT and cpm2 seedlings were grown in a phytochamber
(BBC York, Mannheim, Germany) as described above. Root
samples were harvested for control and severe stress (SMC
15%) treatments. Using a hand microtome, thin sections of 25-
30 um thickness were taken from the center of basal and axial
ends of roots from WT and cpm2 plants grown normally and
under drought stress conditions. Sections were stained in 1%
(w/v) phloroglucinol in 18% hydrochloric acid (HC1), mounted
with water on a glass slide and observed using an Axioskop
microscope (Zeiss GmbH, Jena, Germany) equipped with a 20x
objective. Pictures were taken using a CCD camera (AxioCam,
Zeiss) attached to the microscope.
Statistical Analysis
Representation of individual plants of a genotype within
each sample and the number of replicates for each
analysis/measurement are given in the figure legends. Student's
t-test was performed for testing the statistical significance of the
calculated mean values, with a significance level of P 0.05 and
subsequent graphs were plotted using GraphPad Prism version
7 (GraphPad Software, La Jolla California USA). The ASReml
script was used as a repeated measures analysis across all dates
for WUE using 3.3.1 (R Core Team, 2016). The underlying
statistical model was WUE~Treatment Genotype DAS.
RESULTS
Increased Adaptive Response of cpm2
Morpho-Physiology to Drought
cpm2 and WT plants raised for 4 weeks were subjected to drought
stress. After withholding water for 2 days, response to drought
became apparent in the WT plants through leaf rolling, mainly
in the upper reaches of the leaves, despite apparently stronger
culms, compared to cpm2 (Figures S2A,B). At the end of day
four, WT leaves developed symptoms of wilting In contrast the
upper reaches of the cpm2 leaves remained open and appeared
turgescent while still the well-developed culm of the WT gave
the impression of a stronger plant (Figures S2C,D). These initial
results obtained with plants in the phytochamber were further
confirmed by greenhouse studies in tropical latitudes.
The apparent adaptation of cpm2 to drought was borne out
by other parameters. For example, the cpm2 plants had a higher
water use efficiency (WUE) before drought stress was initiated as
compared to WT (0.23 unit higher in cpm2 in ASReml). However,
with progressive drought stress, WUE in cpm2 plants was even
higher than in those of WT (0.28 units higher in cpm2 in ASReml)
and the difference increased persistently till day 14 after the onset
of drought (Figure 1). Consistently, the p-value for the genotype
effect became lower under drought conditions as well.
Additionally, in 4 weeks old plants, similar stomatal
conductance was observed for cpm2 and WT plants under
control conditions (Figure 2 2A). However, under drought
condition, the overall stomatal conductance in cpm2 showed less
4
