Dhakarey et al.
transport inside eukaryotic organisms (Zhao et al., 2014) and
determination of the orientation of cellulose fibrils in the cell
wall (Schmit and Nick, 2008). B-Tubulin-1 was reported as
more abundant in cpm2 (Figure 8) Likewise, an actin nucleation
protein, which acts in cell elongation, cell shape maintenance,
and polarized growth of root hair (Ramachandran et al., 2000)
was also more abundant in cpm2 (Figure Upregulation of the
microtubule components under drought in rice roots has been
reported earlier (Raorane et al., 2015b,a).
DAPs in Phenylpropanoid Pathway Increased Cell
Wall Modification in cpm2
Water deficiency modulates the expression of lignin biosynthesis
genes (Santos et al., 2015). Of the nine identified DAPs related
to cell wall biosynthesis and remodeling, six encompass lignin
biosynthesis and five of these belong to the phenylpropanoid
biosynthetic pathway (Table Such DAPs more abundant
in cpm2 were OsPAL1, Os4CL3, OsCAD4, OsCOMT1, and
OsCCOAOMT (Figure 8, Figure S5), and these are crucial for
lignin biosynthesis in rice plants (Gui et al., 2011; Hirano et al.,
2012; Koshiba et al., 2013; Yoon et al., 2015; Wang et al., 2017).
Transcript analysis of these genes revealed some interesting
trends. OsPALI increased in both genotypes under moderate
stress, but under severe stress it was similar in wild type and
cpm2 (Figure S8A). The Os4CL3 transcript was more abundant in
cpm2 under moderate and severe drought (Figure S8B) while the
OsCOMT1 transcript was similarly upregulated in cpm2 under
moderate stress but was not significantly different under severe
stress (Figure S8C). Taken together, the transcript and protein
abundance data in the phenylpropanoid pathway suggested an
increase in the biosynthesis of phenolics and/or lignin (Vincent
et al., 2005; Fan et al., 2006; Phimchan et al., 2014) in cpm2.
Since coumarates are also known to be incorporated into the
lignin structure, increased lignin in cpm2 suggested increased
coumarates. The level of esterified p-coumarates was higher
under drought in the WT but not in cpm2 (Figure 7A).
Phloroglucino staining for lignifications also showed increase
in lignin in the WT root section but not in cpm2 (Figure S9).
To resolve the discrepancy in cpm2 between the potentially
increased biosynthesis of phenolics/lignin but relatively lesser
lignin content visualized through phloroglucinol, quantitative
estimation of the changes in the lignin polymer composition
(monolignol ratios and linkage types within the polymer) will
be conducted in future, because phloroglucinol best stains
cinnamaldehydes (Adler, 1977) while the extent of lignin
crosslinking can affect visualization by phloroglucinol (Pomar
et al., 2002). The increase of the elastic modulus but reduced
plastic extensibility of the cell wall under drought (Blum, 2011)
is caused in part by augmented cross-linking of arabinoxylans
to each other and lignin via free-radical-induced oxidative
coupling of phenolics like lignin monomers and ferulates (Fan
and Neumann, 2004; Fan et al., 2006).
p-Coumaric acid is also found ester-linked to arabinoxylans
just like ferulic acid (Mueller-Harvey et al., 1986). No significant
difference in the arabinose/xylose ratio was found in the cpm2
roots' cell wall material under drought in contrast to WT, which
had a lower arabinose/xylose ratio in the drought-stressed roots
Frontiers in Plant Science www.frontiersin.org
Rice JA and Drought Tolerance
November 2017 Volume 8 Article 1903
compared to the control (Figure S10). The arabinose/xylose ratio
is an indicator of the degree of substitution of the arabinoxylan
polymer backbone, which has been shown to be reduced in
drought-stressed plants (Rakszegi et al., 2014). Contrary to our
expectations based on the protein biosynthesis data, drought-
stressed cpm2 roots showed reduced biosynthesis of both ester-
linked ferulic acid monomers (Figure 7B) and the oligoferulates
(dimers and trimers) involved in cell-wall crosslinking compared
to the control (Figure S6). Drought stress also resulted in fewer
diferulates in the WT roots compared to the control (Figure
S6B). Both osmotic stress and ABA have been previously shown
to reduce ester-linked ferulate and diferulate content in wheat
coleoptiles (Wakabayashi 1997a,b). The results indicate that
rice roots respond to drought stress by loosening cross-links in
the cell wall, to become more flexible. However, JA might inhibit
this response, as WT roots show a weaker decrease in those
crosslinking metabolites under drought stress.
Discrepancies in the results expected for the cpm2 cell walls
from more abundant DAPs for phenylpropanoid and ferulate
pathways could potentially be ascribed to alternate uses of the
secondary metabolite products of the enzymes involved. For
example, the phenylpropanoid pathway involving chorismate
and shikimate could be directed to salicylic acid (SA) synthesis,
which like JA is perhaps equally but antagonistically involved in
drought response (Pedranzani and Vigliocco, 2017).
Lower Abundance of DAPs for Aquaporins in cpm2
Could Influence Root Water Status Positively
Plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIP), a subfamily of
aquaporins comprising two subgroups of PIP1 and PIP2 could
also influence root water status. PIP2 proteins could be attributed
for enhanced water channel activity (Chaumont et al., 2000). In
the present study, OsPIP1 was less abundant in cpm2 (Figure 8)
Reduced expression of some of the PIP genes could lead to
inhibition of water loss by preventing backflow of water to dried
soil (Afzal et al., 2016) Moreover, down-regulation of PIP genes
transcription was also reported in the roots of tobacco (Mahdieh
et al., 2008) and also in the twigs and roots of olive plants (Secchi
et al., 2007).
Impaired AOC Function Useful for Drought
Tolerance
Drought stress apparently upregulates the JA biosynthetic
pathway as evident at the transcript and protein level in
our study and in earlier reports in rice (Du et al., 2013).
In the root proteome analysis AOC was unique and highly
abundant under drought in the WT (Figure 6A). Moreover, we
also found 12-OXOPHYTODIENOATE REDUCTASE (OPR7),
another protein downstream of AOC in the JA biosynthesis
pathway, was more abundant under drought in cpm2 roots
(Figure 6A). However, when comparing OPDA, JA, and JA-Ile
levels between WT and cpm2 shoots and roots under control,
moderate and severe stress, minor differences were found, except
in the OPDA levels in WT shoots during severe stress (Figures
S11A-F). Even though the amounts detected for these hormones
under our specific experimental conditions were rather low.
12
