N. Agustiani et al.
European Journal of Agronomy 101 (2018) 10-19
using coefficients derived for two commercial high-yielding rice and
and/or maize crops are grown in the same piece of land during one year
maize cultivars based on experimental data and measured weather and
depending upon climate, soils, and access to irrigation. Different
soil data from well-managed experiments in Indonesia where observed
(lowland and upland) ecosystems, water regimes (irrigated and
yields approached the Yp (or Yw) as determined by the climate (and
rainfed), and crop sequences typically co-exist within the same geo-
soil) at each site. These coefficients were robust at portraying the
graphic region. Previous assessments of yield gaps for South East Asia
maximum yields observed in on-farm trials conducted across multiple
have focused on individual crops, usually at one or few locations (e.g.,
sites, years, seasons, cultivars, and water regimes for dominant rice-
Laborte et al., 2012; Stuart et al., 2016; Pasuquin et al., 2014). At the
maize cropping systems. In contrast to other models that require a large
other extreme of the spectrum, global studies aiming at estimating Yp
number of cultivar-specific coefficients (e.g., Jones et al., 2003), Hybrid
(or Yw) and yield gaps have relied on gridded weather data and coarse
Maize only required calibration of cultivar-specific GDDs. Along these
assumptions about the crop-system context leading to unrealistic esti-
lines, an interesting finding from this study was that growth-related
mates of Yp, Yw, and yield gaps (e.g., Fischer et al., 2002; Nelson et al.,
coefficients derived for temperate maize in the original calibration of
2010). The models evaluated in the present study, together with
Hybrid Maize were robust for simulating Yp in irrigated, well-managed
available weather, soil, and agronomic databases, can be used for es-
experiments in the tropical environment of Indonesia. Similarly, Yang
timating Yp (or Yw) in rice- and maize-bases agro-ecosystems in South
et al (2017) found the model coefficients to work well at reproducing
East Asia, not only for individual crops but also at the crop-system level
observed yields in USA, across a wide range of water supply that lead to
(Guilpart et al., 2017a,b; Silva et al., 2017). Likewise, these models can
a range of yields from near crop failure up to 18 Mg Altogether,
be used for ex-ante assessment of food security for different scenarios of
these findings support the contention made by Yang et al. (2004) that
climate change and land conversion, to evaluate opportunities to close
the model can provide reliable estimates of Yp across a wide range of
yield gaps and/or improving resource-use efficiencies through fine-
environments, without need of calibrating site- and cultivar-specific
tuning of current crop practices, such as sowing date and cultivar ma-
coefficients, except for GDDs, which are needed to account for differ-
turity, and better estimation of yield goals and their variability to in-
ences in phenology among hybrids.
form fertilizer recommendations (e.g., Witt et al., 1999; Setiyono et al.,
Our study provided a first insight about the range of Yp (or Yw)
2011; Pasuquin et al., 2012, 2014).
across major rice and maize crop systems in Indonesia. Comparison
between our average rice Yp (9.1 Mg ha and maize Yw (11.5 Mg
against respective average farmer yields in Indonesia based on
5. Conclusions
FAOSTAT national statistics for the 2012-2016 interval (5.2 and 5 Mg
ha for rice and maize, respectively) suggests that there is still room
Our study provides robust estimates of yield potential for modern
for increasing annual productivity in rice- and maize-based cropping
high-yield rice and maize cultivars in the humid environment of
systems in Indonesia, and more broadly, in South East Asia. The range
Indonesia based on high-quality experimental data from modern high-
in simulated Yp for rice in our study (ca. 8-11 Mg ha-l) was consistent
yield cultivars from multiple site-years and measured weather and soil
with previous simulations of rice Yp in the tropics (e.g., Kropff et al.,
properties. This study clearly advances current knowledge from pre-
1996), including estimates at two specific locations in Indonesia
vious published studies, which were based on one or few site-years and
(Laborte et al., 2012; Stuart et al., 2016). In contrast, our simulated Yp
relied mostly on coarse gridded weather and soil data, generic model
for rice was clearly higher than those reported by Boling et al. (2004,
parameters, and/or experiments that were not explicitly managed to
2007, 2008) for Central Java (range: 4-6 Mg ha-l). We note that ob-
achieve near-optimal conditions for crop growth and yield. Findings
served yields and aboveground dry matter at maturity used in our ca-
confirmed the expected yield potential for modern rice varieties re-
libration are much higher than those reported in these previous studies
ported elsewhere in South East Asia (Peng et al., 1999), with our si-
using ORYZA, with observed yields ranging from 1 to 6 Mg ha-l (Boling
mulated rice yield potential remarkably higher than that reported for
al., 2004). Such a discrepancy in simulated Yp may suggest that those
Indonesia based on experimental data and crop modeling (Boling et al.,
previous studies for rice in Indonesia were based on experimental data
2004). Finally, our study indicates a high-yield potential for maize in
collected from crops that were not explicitly managed to reach Yp.
irrigated conditions and favorable rainfed environments. It also sug-
Changes in Yp over time are unlikely to explain differences in Yp be-
gests that there is still room for increasing productivity in intensive rice-
tween our study and previous ones given the lack of increase in Yp for
maize based crop systems in South East Asia, though a more rigorous
rice varieties released after the onset of the Green Revolution in South
analysis per region and cropping systems is needed to understand where
East Asia (Peng et al., 1999). In the case of maize, despite evidence of
the largest yield gaps are and their underlying causes.
high yields (10-15M in irrigated (or favorable rainfed) sub-
tropical and tropical environments based on field observations (Betran
et al., 2003; Pasuquin et al., 2012, 2014; Worku et al., 2016) and si-
Acknowledgments
mulation (Timsina et al., 2010; van Ittersum et al., 2017), previous
efforts in calibrating and evaluating maize simulation models for these
Funding for this research was provided by the Indonesian Agency
environments were based on experiments that did not exceed 10 Mg ha
for Agricultural Research and Development (IAARD), University of
(e.g., Carberry et al., 1989) and, in most cases, were below 5 Mg ha
Nebraska-Lincoln (UNL), and UNL Daugherty Water for Food Global
(e.g., Soler et al., 2007; Gaiser et al., 2010; Bassu et al., 2014; Kadiyala
Institute. The authors wish to thank the following scientists and their
et al., 2015). As far as we know, this is the first study reporting a maize
institutions for conducting field experiments and/or providing access to
model evaluation for the humid tropics using experimental yields
data: Dr. Yudhistira Nugraha (Indonesia Center for Rice Research), Mr
10 Mg hal A global assessment of crop models on their ability to si-
A.M. Murni (AIAT Lampung), Mr Supadmo and Mr Samijan (AIAT
mulate Yp and Yw in the humid tropics based on data from crops that
Central Java), Mr Suwono (AIAT East Java), Mr P. Tandisau (AIAT
were explicitly managed to achieve near-optimal conditions is lacking.
South Sulawesi), Dr S. Saenong and D Subandi (ICRI), Dr D. Setyorini
We believe such an evaluation should receive priority given the massive
and Dr S. Rochayati (ISRI) Dr. S. Kartaatmadja, Dr M.F. Pampolino and
expansion in global maize harvested area (ca. 50 million ha) during the
Dr T. Oberthur (IPNI), Dr A. Dobermann (Rothamstead Research) and
last 15-y period (2002-2016) period, with 40% of this area increase
Dr C. Witt (Gates Foundation). We are also thankful to the Indonesian
occurring in tropical and subtropical regions located in Southeast and
Rice Consortium for facilitating the experimental data from the multi-
South Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa, and South America (http://www.fao.
location cultivar evaluation trials and Dr Haishun Yang (UNL) and Dr
org/faostat/en/#data/QC).
Ando Radanielson (Internationa Rice Research Institute) for their va-
South East Asia has diverse cropping systems where multiple rice
luable comments on an earlier version of the manuscript.
17
