N. Agustiani et al.
management practices on crop growth, development, and yield
(Grassini et al., 2015; Rotter et al., 2015).
Multiple rice and/or maize cropS are often grown on the same piece
of land within a 12-month period in the humid tropical environment of
South East Asia (Pasuquin et al., 2014). For example, up to three crops
per year can be grown in irrigated and favorable rainfed environments
of Indonesia. Due to a combination of high cropping intensity and large
arable land, Indonesia is the third and fifth largest rice and maize
producing country in the globe, respectively (FAOSTAT, 2017). Still,
Indonesia has imported substantial amounts of maize and rice grain
during recent decades. At the same time, there has been massive
cropland conversion for industrial and residentia uses (d'Amour et al.,
2017). Hence, it is crucial for Indonesia, as well as other countries in
South East Asia, to understand what the extra crop production potential
is on existing cropland and identify those factors that constrain on-farm
yields. Few studies have attempted to estimate rice and, in particular,
maize Yp and Yw in Indonesia using crop simulation models (Boling
et al., 2004, 2007, 2008; Timsina et al., 2011; Laborte et al., 2012;
Pasuquin et al., 2014; Stuart et al., 2016). These previous attempts
suffered from limitations and/or sources of uncertainty. First, most of
these studies have focused at estimating Yp (or Yw) using models that
were calibrated for individual site-years; hence, it is unknown how
robust these models are at estimating Yp (or Yw) across Indonesia's
wide range of environments and cropping systems. Second, previous
studies have relied on coarse-scale gridded and/or generated weather
data, which can lead to important biases in simulated Yp and Yw (van
Wart et al., 2013, 2015). Finally, many of these studies have used
generic model coefficients derived from outdated cultivars that are not
representative of modern high-yielding cultivars and/or from experi-
ments that did not reach near-optimal conditions for crop growth,
which may have led to an underestimation of Yp (or Yw). For example,
Boling et al. (2004, 2007, 2008) reported Yp of ca. 4.5 Mg for
irrigated rice in Central Java. We note that this estimate of Yp is lower
than current average farmer yield in the same region (ca. 5 Mg ha-l and
the Yp of ca. 9-10 ha expected for irrigated rice in South East Asia
(Kropff et al., 1996; Peng et al., 1999).
Robust calibration and evaluation of crop models requires experi-
mental data from crops grown under near-optimal conditions that allow
expression of Yp (irrigated) and Yw (rainfed crops), including crop
variables (yield, phenology, etc.) and weather, soil, and management
data needed to simulate site-year specific conditions. However, it is
difficult to ensure near-optimal growing conditions, even in controlled
experimental plots, due to the multitude of factors influencing crop
growth and the difficulties in removing every single limiting factor
across space and time (Cassman et al., 2003). These limiting factors
include (i) incidence of insect pests and pathogens, which are especially
problematic in the humid tropics, (ii) insufficient supply of water (in
the case of irrigated crops) and plant nutrients, and (iii) sub-optimal
management in relation with transplanting, sowing date, plant density,
etc. (Lu et al., 2007; Laborte et al., 2012; GRiSP, 2013; Buresh et al.,
2015; Castex et al., 2018; Stuart et al., 2016). Likewise, it is difficult to
access high-quality measured weather and soil data in many regions of
the world, which is needed to conduct site-specific simulations of Yp
and Yw (Grassini et al., 2015). Due to lack of data, many studies have
relied on coarse-scale or poor quality weather and soil data for model
calibration and evaluation, which, as mentioned previously, can ser-
iously distort resulting Yp and Yw estimates (Van Wart et al., 2013,
2015). We are not aware of any explicit effort to calibrate and evaluate
crop models for modern high-yielding rice and maize cultivars in In-
donesia using data collected from well-managed experiments coupled
with high-quality on-site weather and soil data.
The present study made a first step towards a better estimation of Yp
and Yw in intensive rice- and maize-based cropping systems in tropical
humid environments using high-quality experimental data from
modern high-yield cultivars and measured weather data and soil
properties. Our objective was to calibrate two crop models (ORYZA and
European Journal of Agronomy 101 (2018) 10-19
Hybrid Maize) for modern rice and maize cultivars and to evaluate the
calibrated models on their ability to estimate yield potential for major
ORYZA is a crop model that simulates rice growth and development
(Kropff et al., 1993; Bouman et al., 2001; Li et al., 2017). Briefly, the
model simulates CO2 assimilation and respiration on a daily basis. Daily
net carbon assimilation is estimated by difference and allocated to
roots, stems, leaves, and panicles, with partitioning coefficients de-
pendent upon developmental stage. For simulating Yp, ORYZA assumes
no limitations by water and nutrients and an absence of insect pests,
weeds, and diseases. ORYZA has been used to simulate Yp across major
rice producing areas in the world (e.g., Espe et al., 2016; Guilpart et al.,
2017a,b; Stuart et al., 2016; Yuan et al., 2017). The latest version of
ORYZA (ORYZA V3) has been released recently, with an improved
capability to simulate rice growth and yield across a wide range of
environments (Li et al., 2017). ORYZA requires calibration of six
coefficients to account for cultivar differences in phenology: develop-
ment rates for juvenile (DVRJ), photoperiod-sensitive (DVRI), panicle
development (DVRP), and reproductive phases (DVRR), photoperiod
sensitivity, and maximum optimum photoperiod. Another set of coef-
ficients related to dry matter partitioning at different crop stages also
requires calibration. Consequently, calibrating ORYZA for a given
variety requires detailed experimental data (dates of heading, anthesis,
and physiological maturity, leaf area index [LAI], and dry matter pro-
duction and partitioning), management practices (plant density and
dates of sowing and transplanting), and daily weather data, including
solar radiation and maximum (Tmax) and minimum temperature (Tmin).
'Hybrid Maize' simulates maize growth and development for rainfed
and irrigated conditions (Yang et al., 2004, 2017). Hybrid Maize is si-
milar in structure to ORYZA, but only requires a single genotype-spe-
cific input parameter: growing-degree days (GDD) from crop emergence
until the crop reaches physiological maturity. All other parameters
governing photosynthesis, respiration, leaf area expansion, light inter-
ception, biomass partitioning, and grain filling are considered to be
stable across modern maize hybrids. For estimating Yw in rainfed crops,
Hybrid Maize accounts for water supply amount and distribution as
well as soil properties influencing crop water availability such as soil
texture, soil depth, and field slope. The model has been satisfactorily
evaluated on its ability to reproduce observed yields in well-managed
experiments that portrayed a wide range of rainfed and irrigated en-
vironments, with yield ranging from near crop failure to 18 Mg ha
(Grassini et al., 2009; Yang et al., 2017). Hybrid Maize has been used
across many countries with diverse climate and soils to estimate Yp,
Yw, and yield gaps, determine yield goals to estimate nutrient re-
quirements, and evaluate management options (Witt et al., 2006;
Timsina et al., 2010, 2011; Grassini et al., 2011; Setiyono et al., 2011;
Chen et al., 2011, 2013; Meng et al., 2013; Schulthess et al., 2013; van
Ittersum et al., 2016). However, an explicit evaluation of Hybrid
Maize's ability to reproduce Yp and Yw of maize in the humid tropics is
Two sources of experimental data were used for rice: (i) high-yield
(HY) experiments conducted by the Indonesian Center for Rice
Research (ICRR) and (ii) ICRR's multi-location cultivar evaluation
2 Yield gap is defined as the difference between Yp for irrigated crops (or Yw
for rainfed crops) and average farmer yield (van Ittersum et al., 2013).
rice-maize cropping systems in Indonesia.
2. Materials and methods
2.1. ORYZA and Hybrid Maize models
lacking.
2.2. Databases for model calibration and evaluation
2.2.1. Rice experimental data
11
