Ecology and Society 23(1): 14
htps:llwvwwecologyandsocietyorglvol23lissllartl4
used to supplement the results of on-farm evaluation, especially
to estimate the benefits of resilience and mitigation benefits
through time In the second step, the final portfolios are evaluated
by farmers on a larger scale Crowdsourcing of experiences is used
in order to understand farmers' preferences and technology
adaptation domains across CSV sites in the region. Due
consideration is also given on the identification and evaluation of
constraints and barriers to adoptions of interventions along with
ways to overcome them.
Scaling up and scaling out: Once intervention portfolios are
successfully demonstrated, the evidence generated in the CSVs is
used to contribute to scaling up and out promising innovations.
Scaling mechanisms tested across the regions include:
Horizontal scaling (scaling out) of climate-smart options:
CSVs provide demonstration sites for farmer-to-farmer
learning (often through self-help groups or producer
organizations) and/or enable local promotion of CSA
options through local government plans, programs, and
policies or through private-sector business models.
Vertical scaling (scaling up): CSV research and lessons
learned provide evidence for the efficacy of practices,
technologies, services, processes, and institutional options
and are thus able to: influence large-scale CSA investment
plans; promote mainstreaming of institutional changes;
and/or inform policy instruments.
Horizontal scaling out is done from farmer to farmer through
networking using ICT-based tools, farmers' fairs, farmer
exchange visits, and participatory videos of the adopted
technologies, or through engagement with local government
institutions. Connecting with women's organizations is another
effective scaling-out approach. Institutional and financial needs
are determined, for both local and national (or subnational)
contexts, often using appropriate business models. The potential
for consolidation and convergence of current agricultural
development schemes/plans in the region is explored. For
instance, national programs/schemes on water management,
alternative energy, agricultural extension, and subsidies in
agricultural inputs such as farm machinery, seeds, and fertilizers
can have added value to leverage resources and investments from
different sources into adaptation and mitigation goals, and
minimize transaction costs and maximize synergies in CSVs.
Consideration of national and regional gender machineries and
social development programs also helps to integrate social
inclusion concerns into the CSVs as well as to orient social
development programs to climate change impacts and action.
Monitoring and evaluation provide feedback to the CSV design
process, which is based on learning and adjustment. Finally,
adaptation pathways for the CSA approach-including
technology and services portfolios, capacity building programs,
institutional and financial mechanisms, and potentia costs and
benefits of program implementation-ar presented to policy
makers for scaling up through replication in other sites, or
provision of incentives for adoption through large-scale
agricultural investment plans. Although conceptually this step is
placed at the end of the sequence (Fig. 2), it can vary according
to the CSV context. Individuals and institutions with policy reach
are often engaged early in the process, sometimes even in the
baseline assessment stage, which helps to build trust, interest, and
common purpose. But it can also lead to "messy" processes, where
external agencies may wish to promote scaling-out processes
prematurely, even while baseline evidence is being collected.
RESULTS
Distribution of climate-smart villages and their climate
representativeness
The CCAFS started piloting the CSV AR4D approach in 2012
in Africa (Burkina Faso, Ghana, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Kenya,
Ethiopia, Tanzania, and Uganda) and South Asia (Bangladesh,
India, and Nepal). In 2014, more projects were established in Latin
America (Colombia, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua) and
Southeast Asia (Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, and Philippines).
Currently, there are 36 CSV sites across the CCAFS's focal regions
(Fig. 4).
The global representativeness of the CSV site network is evaluated
using a climate analog tool (Ramirez-Villegas et al. 2011) The
similarity between the monthly climates of each CSV with those
of all other pixels with the same production system was computed
using WorldClim data of precipitation and temperature (Hijmans
et al. 2005). We give equal weight to each parameter and account
hemispheric differences (Jones and Thornton 2000) Although
temperature and precipitation are not the only climatic drivers,
they do explain much of the variation in agricultural production
worldwide (Ray et al. 2015). We then assessed how globally
representative the entire set of sites was-each of the 36 CSV sites
encompasses between three to seven localities for a total of (n
249)-b taking the maximum similarity value across all CSVs
for each pixe (Fig. 5).
A substantial part of the global tropics and subtropics are highly
representative, especially across the Sahel and South and
Southeast Asia (Fig. 5). An area of ca. 2 million ha has 80%
similarity for crops and pastures with ca. 4 and 5 million ha having
60% similarity. The tropical South America sites represent few
other areas. Popayan (Colombia) represents only a limited
amount of the highly diverse agricultural landscapes of the Andes
or of Brazilian agricultura areas. In contrast, the CSVs of Central
America, which are lower and drier, are more broadly
representative.
Climate change is likely to alter the CSVs' climates, thus
potentially altering their global representativeness. Therefore,
representativeness of current CSV sites under future (2030s)
climates was also analyzed using bias-corrected climate change
projections from the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project
Phase 5 (CMIP5) ensemble (Taylor et al. 2012) data for 33 general
circulation models for the representative concentrations pathway
8.5. Results showed that, by the 2030s, similarities change only
slightly, with most areas remaining within +5% of historical
representativeness. Therefore, changes by the 2030s are not
expected to alter the global representation of the CSV network.
Thus, it is clear that the current CSV sites represent a large
agricultural area of the world facing diverse climatic risks, and
these sites will remain crucial for adaptation learning even in the
future.
The CSV approach followed in Asia, Africa, and Latin America
is very similar but highly contextualized in local situations. The
