Global Food Security 16 (2018) 127-132
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Global Food Security
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locatelgfs
Food security and the environment: Interdisciplinary research to increase
Global food insecurity is increasing in absolute terms despite recent decreases in percentage terms. Options to
increase food production while protecting the environment exclude further expansion of cropland, leaving in-
creased agricultural productivity as an option assuming we address its associated technological and societal
challenges while exercising environmental conservation. Improving productivity requires redoubled efforts in
interdisciplinary work to design and implement sound agricultural management practices and efficient use of
inputs. Based on a historical perspective of the last few decades on hypothesized environmental limits to food
production and looking at prospective futures, we analyze the required type of interdisciplinary research to
improve productivity. We conclude that bringing together increased food supply and environmental conserva-
tion requires research that integrates engineering, technology, science, policy, and action.
Food Security (CFS), the International Water Management Institute
(IWMI), and the Cereal Systems Initiative for South Asia (CSISA).
Global climate change compounds some of these impediments to im-
prove food security and ID approaches to study climate change have
become relevant (Ziervogel and Ericksen, 2010).
Societies may not expand cropland without significant environ-
mental risks, leaving increased productivity as the major avenue to
increase food production, which demands ID research (IDR) (Acevedo,
2011). In this paper, we provide a historical perspective of the last few
decades on environmental limits to food production. While acknowl-
edging the progress made due to the Green Revolution, we look at
prospective futures, to realize that the type of IDR required should in-
tegrate technology, science, policy, and action. In particular, we ad-
vocate more use of the capabilities of qualitative social sciences in order
to address the multiplicity of human factors that may impede im-
provement in food production and more generally in food security.
Our analysis relates to worldwide food production and environ-
mental quality, but we focus on those regions where there is large need
to increase the number of people with access to food which in many
cases coincide with those regions where food production and environ-
mental quality are in greatest need of reconciliation.
Corresponding author at: Electrical Engineering Dept. and Advanced Environmental Research Institute, University of North Texas, Denton, TX 76203, United States.
E-mail addresses: acevedo@unt.edu (M.F. Acevedo), david.harvey@ncl.ac.uk (D.R. Harvey), florenciagpalis@gmail.com (F.G. Palis).
ELSEVIER
productivity while exercising environmental conservation
Miguel F. Acevedoa,b,
a Electrical Engineering Dept. and Advanced Environmental Research Institute, University of North Texas, Denton, TX 76203, United States
b Center for Simulation and Modeling (CESIMO), Universidad de Los Andes, Merida, Venezuela
C School of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, The University of Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 7RU UK
d Department of Social Sciences, University of the Philippines at Los Banos, College, Laguna, Philippines
e International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), Los Banos, Laguna, Philippines
C O
Keywords:
Food security
Production
Productivity
Environment
Interdisciplinary
Technology
Social science
1. Introduction
There are -800 million undernourished people in the world (~11%
of the population), an improvement in the last decade that meets the
First Millennium Development Goal of halving the proportion of people
who suffer from hunger by 2015 (FAO et al., 2015) (Fig. 1). The world
2015 Global Hunger Index (GHI) improved by 27% relative to 2000
(von Grebmer et al., 2015). This is a consistent trend; according to the
United Nations (UN) the proportion of undernourished people de-
creased from 20% to 16% in the previous decade (UN, 2010).
The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) considers four di-
mensions of food security: food availability, food access, utilization,
and stability (FAO, 2006). In this paper, we focus on food availability
and in particular food production and its limiting factors related to
environmental conditions (e.g., climate, water, soils) and human re-
lated factors - such as lack of infrastructure (e.g., irrigation, roads, and
food storage), lack of agro-bio-technology (e.g., seeds of water-efficient
crops), and inadequate socio-political systems (e.g., fair trade, food
justice, governance, and policy).
Several institutions sustain interdisciplinary (ID) research teams to
examine impediments to food production; for instance, FAO, the
International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), the UN World
Food Programme (WFP), the World Bank, the UN Committee on World
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gfs.2018.01.001
Received 10 March 2017; Received in revised form 2 January 2018; Accepted 2 January 2018
2211-9124/ 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Check for
updates
David R. Harvey, Florencia G. Palisd,
ABSTRACT A B A
