Ecology and Society 23(1): 14
ttpsllwwwecologyandsocietyorglvolz3lisllartl4l
Fig. 2. Outline of the steps in a typical CSV AR4D site. Steps are based on stakeholder engagement and seldom follow a simple
linear model.
BASELINE
CSV
CREATING
ASSESSMENT
DESIGN
EVIDENCE
SCALING
Climatic risks
Strategic portfolio
Research
Farmer-to-farmer
CLIMATE-
& vulnerabilities
of technologies
evaluation
Policies &
SMART
Resources & markets
CIS* tactical support
Stakeholder
programs
FARMING
Local knowledge
Institutional
evaluation
Public & private
COMMUNITIES
& goals
innovations
Scalability
institutions & finance
Technologies
Stakeholder
& services
mobilization
MONITORING EVALUATION AND LEARNING
An ideal CSV approach provides five types of decision support
METHODS
to farmers and other stakeholders:
Key steps of the climate-smart village approach implementation
1. Village/community agricultural land use plans and
The CSV approach, which consists of four steps, guides
contingency plans considering current and future climate
adaptation planning and on-the-ground implementation with the
risks, agroecological and socieconomic conditions, and
objective of transforming farming communities to be more
markets.
climate smart (Fig. 2). Figure 2 outlines the steps in a typical CSV
2. Portfolios of agricultural practices, technologies, and
AR4D site. Implementation of these steps is based on stakeholder
programs that do not become maladaptive in future climate
engagement and seldom follows a simple linear model.
and market scenarios are assessed using models.
Baseline assessment: Implementation of the CSV approach begins
3. Strategic guidance before (where feasible based on seasonal
by assessing climate-related risks and vulnerabilities to agriculture
forecasts) and during the planting season on the most
at the household/village/landscape level. Historical climate data
suitable CSA practices, technologies, services, processes, and
are analyzed to assess risks such as the probability of sowing
institutional options considering market and resource
failure due to inadequate rainfall at the start of the season. It also
availability such as capital, labor, and markets. This is done
includes risks of wet and dry spells, and periods of heat or cold
in a participatory mode with local farmer groups such as
stresses during the cropping season. Future climate scenarios are
farmers' self-help groups, water-users associations, local
analyzed to assess the likely change in risk profiles and long-term
extensions systems, or local private-sector actors.
suitability of the main cropping and livestock systems. Secondary
data are used to assess GHG emissions from agriculture and
4. Tactical guidance to farmers on using real-time weather
simple calculators in those regions where mitigation is relevant.
forecasts and value-added information and communication
technology (ICT)-based agroadvisories; on accessing good
Baseline assessment includes the natural (land, water, and soil)
quality inputs and technologies for improving water/
and physical (infrastructure such as irrigation, technology, and
nutrient/energy use efficiencies, and on risk transfer through
markets) resources available. It also includes assessment of
insurance mechanisms in case of crop and livestock losses.
socioeconomic resources such as human (labor and education),
financial (source and amount of revenue and budget), and social
5. Policy-level guidance on barriers and options to unlock CSA
(institutions and networks) resources. Local communities help
with local and national development, including
guide the CSV design process, which includes their knowledge of
consideration of financial needs to drive scaling.
climatic risk management.
The CSV approach differs from existing agricultura development
A quick participatory assessment is made of the various practices
approaches, which usually depend on substantial external
and technologies being used in the village/region, as well as the
funding. When the funding ceases, the project unravels
potentia ones that can be adopted, guided by agronomic studies
(Millennium Villages Project 2016). In contrast, the key focus in
in the region or homologous regions elsewhere. Availability of
a typical CSV is on strengthening capacities and empowering the
climate information services-such as weather-based agroadvisories
farming communities and their local organizations. In the process,
and agriculture insurance schemes in the region also assessed.
partners in the CSV approach commit only limited resource
support to catalyze the process.
Successful implementation of the CSV approach also hinges on
strong institutions and enabling policies that can support
adaptation activities at the village level. Assessment of current
