Ecology and Society 23(1): 14
ttpsllwwwecologyandsocietyorglvolz3lisllartl4l
Fig. 3. Types of climate-smart options that may be tested as part of context specific portfolios in the CSV sites.
Weather-
Water-
Seed/breed.
Carbon/nutrient-
Institutional/
smart
smart
smart
smart
market-smart
Weather forecasts
Aquifer recharge
Adapted varieties
Agroforestry
Cross-sector linkages
Agro-advisories
Rainwater harvesting
Adapted breeds
Minimum tillage
Local institutions
Weather insurance
Community management
Seed banks
Land use systems
Gender strategies
Climate analogues
of water
Livestock management
Contingency planning
Avoided maladaptation
Laser leveling
Integrated nutrient
Financial services
On-farm water
management
Market information
management
Biofuels
Off-farm risk management
Solar pumps
adaptation policies and institutions at different scales is essential
to-farmer learning and capacity development, contingency
to identify the potential for cooperation with and leveraging
planning, financial services, market information, gender-
support from other entities. These assessments indicate the scope
equitable approaches, and off-farm risk management
for mainstreaming the CSV approach into local adaptation
strategies)
policies and plans including other development initiatives. An
Strategic decision making in the CSV approach is a participatory
evaluation is also done by gender and age to understand the
activity. Proposed interventions must be relevant to the conditions
different perspectives, division of labor, decision-making
defined by the baseline and show promise for wider scale relevancy
patterns, opportunities, and capacities in households and
beyond the CSV. The CSA practices, technologies, and services
communities (Quisumbung and Pandolfelli 2010, Doss and
included in the portfolio for any site are the outcome of group
Kieran 2013, Perez et al. 2015)
discussions with women and men farmers, local government
CSV design. This step primarily focuses on developing a portfolio
officials and researchers. Various tools-such as choice
of practices and technologies dealing with food security,
experiments, indicators-based ranking methods, and simple
adaptation and mitigation and on climate-information services
stakeholders' prioritization-are used for this exercise. The CSA
that need to be initially piloted in the CSVs. The portfolio includes
portfolio may be influenced by gender difference in awareness
the following (Fig. 3):
levels, as well as by the choice of CSA technologies by the
stakeholders. Several CCAFS projects have published details of
Weather-smart activities (weather forecasts, climate-
how CSV portfolios of climate-smart interventions have been
informed agroadvisories, weather insurance, climate analogs
selected and designed (Taneja et al. 2014, Corner-Dolloff et al.
as a tool for forward planning, strategies to avoid
2015).
maladaptation)
Creating evidence: Once a portfolio has been designed, field
Water-smart practices (aquifer recharge, rainwater
evidence for this is developed in a two-step process. First, a narrow
harvesting, community management of water, laser-land
range of interventions/portfolios is evaluated in a multistakeholder
leveling, microirrigation, raised-bed planting, solar pumps)
research platform (including CGIAR, national agricultura
Seed/breed smart (adapted varieties and breeds, seed banks,
research systems, NGOs, and private-sector players, farmers and
including community-based activities)
their institutions) established in CSV sites. The process assesses
Carbon/nutrient-smart practices (agroforestry, minimum
the benefits, synergies, and trade-offs of the technologies from
the perspective of individual farmers (men, women, and youth)
tillage, land use systems, livestock management, integrated
nutrient management, biofuels) and
as well as of the aggregate community/landscape by using well-
established principles of on-farm and farmers field research.
Institutional/market smart activities (crosssectora links;
Detailed evaluation is conducted using surveys, farmer group
local institutions, including learning platforms or farmer-
evaluations, and ICT-based feedback tools. Modeling is often
