M.F. Acevedo et al.
Global Food Security 16 (2018) 127-132
several case studies (Sala et al., 2017).
concept of knowledge integration recognizing that integration can
Three global change processes (climate, land-use, and economic)
occur within a single mind as well as among a team.
compound the challenge of reconciling production and environmental
quality (Foley et al., 2011). The impacts of global change on food se-
5. Conclusions
curity are best examined adopting a "food system" view and developing
an ID framework to bridge disciplines and to show where each con-
The desired IDR to reconcile productivity and conservation should
tributes (Ingram et al., 2010). As we implement interventions programs
provide an effective way to identify the complex issues requiring so-
based on IDR, it is important to design standardized outcome measures
lution, to build upon the mobilization of various disciplines, the design
and share expertise across regions (Gaihre et al., 2016).
of innovative theoretical and methodological frameworks, and the
Conway (2012) is cautiously optimistic about our ability to increase
setting up of participatory institutional programs. Providing technolo-
productivity providing that we make full use of available technologies,
gical solutions and designing appropriate policy interventions require
increase funding to develop new technologies, employ sustainable
understanding of the social and environmental processes as a whole.
practices, and plan strategically at the market, sector and policy levels.
Technological fixes alone would not solve the food security and en-
An implication of this recipe is that the 'quadruple green' revolution we
vironment concerns but science, policy, and action could when working
need (sustainable, effective, equitable and efficient) requires redoubled
all together.
ID efforts and a combination of innovation, markets, people and poli-
Providing food for all is a primary problem that humanity continues
tical leadership (Fig. 1).
to face. Without food security, societies have a great difficulty to pro-
gress in most other aspects of their well-being, particularly a healthy
4.7. Funding and publications
relationship with the environment. It is tempting either to assume that
we cannot solve the food production vs. environmental protection di-
ID is formally recognized as an excellent vehicle for innovation and
lemma, or to trust that a segment of our modern science will come up
solving complex problems. However, research funding, publications,
with a technological fix. However, we argue that we need a different
and academic incentives seem to favor a non-ID behavior; this apparent
perspective: that of engaging in goal-directed IDR the full spectrum of
paradox has been lacking empirical confirmation (Rylance, 2015). For
science and engineering, from the qualitative to the quantitative, from
instance, it is often asserted that ID grant proposals are less likely to be
the experimental to the theoretical. We contend a sustainable doubly
funded than disciplinary proposals; Bromham et al. (2016) have re-
green revolution requires this type of research. ID work provides op-
cently demonstrated it to hold true using data from one funding agency.
portunities for synergies between productivity and conservation. To
The study used an ID distance (IDD) metric that captures the relative
exploit these opportunities, goal-directed IDR is crucial, since re-
representation of different disciplines and their degree of difference and
searchers, producers, practitioners, and policy makers all need to be
a test case study from almost 20,000 proposals submitted to the Dis-
involved.
covery Program of the Australian Research Council over five funding
cycles. Reasons for lower probability of success for ID proposals are not
Acknowledgments
clear; some may be due to reviewer's lack of grasp of several disciplines
at once, accompanied by a perception of higher-risk and cost (Bromham
This article is an outcome of discussions during the Science 4
et al., 2016).
workshop on IDR applied to food security and environment quality,
In contrast, other studies have found evidence of ID content in
part of the 6th Internationa Conference on Environmental Future
funded projects. For instance, awards from the USA National Science
(ICEF) held in Newcastle UK, July 2011. For all their valuable con-
Foundation (NSF) in 2010-2011 were analyzed using a topic model and
tributions during discussions, we thank all participants in the work-
data mining methods (Nichols, 2014). The ID nature of an award was
shop, especially Carlos M. Arriaga Jordan, Director of the Instituto de
determined from tags assigned to disciplines and an ID metric based on
Ciencias Agropecuarias y Rurales, Universidad Autonoma del Estado de
a diversity distance. In particular, 14,000 awards by the Social, Beha-
Mexico, Toluca, Mexico, and Rashid Hassan, Centre for Environmental
vioral, and Economics Sciences (SBE) directorate were found to have a
Economics and Policy in Africa, Dept. of Agricultural Economics
relative high degree of ID, which varies whether the ID includes other
Extension and Rural Development University of Pretoria, South Africa.
disciplines within the directorate or from other directorates.
We were inspired by Ben Malayang's words at the closing of the 6th
These studies demonstrate that it is possible to assess the inclusion
ICEF, 'Environmental problems are emotional, environmental solutions
of ID in funding programs, which would allow funding agencies and
are social and technical, and environmental decisions are political. We
donors to guide their efforts to increase funding opportunities for IDR
express our gratitude to the reviewers, and to Achim Dobermann,
projects.
editor, Global Food Security, for providing excellent feedback that
Publications, another major criterion for tenure and promotion, is a
helped improve this manuscript.
crucial challenge for IDR. The number of ID journals is increasing, but
only a few have prestige and high impact factor compared to those of
Conflict of interest
single-discipline journals. Articles in the very prestigious multi-
disciplinary journals, Science and Nature, do not include substantially
This research did not receive any specific grant from funding
more IDR than other high-ranking disciplinary journals (Solomon et al.,
agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.
2016). However, the broad reach and high impact of Science and Nature,
has an influence in understanding across disciplines.
References
Leydesdorff and Rafols (2011) tested metrics to complement journa
impact indicator systems with a measure of ID content and impact.
Acevedo, M.F., 2011. Interdisciplinary progress in food production, food security and
These authors used a variety of correlation methods, distance and di-
environment research. Environ. Conserv. 38 (2), 151-171.
versity measures, to rank ID content of ~8000 journals with 12 in-
Acevedo, M.F., Callicott, B.J., Monticino, M. Lyons, D., Palomino, J., Rosales, J.,
Delgado, L., Ablan, M., Davila, J., Tonella, G., Ramirez, H., Vilanova, E., 2008.
dicators. This type of methodology could help orient ID researchers in
Models of natural and human dynamics in forest landscapes: cross-site and croSS-
selecting outlets for their work as well as to inform reward systems in
cultura synthesis. Geoforum 39 (2), 846-866.
academic institutions. However, caution is imperative when con-
Axinn, G.H., 1997. Challenges to agricultural extension in the twenty-first century. In:
Scarborough, V., Killough, S., Johnson, D.A., Farrington, J. (Eds.), Farmer-led
sidering this quantitative approach. In a review on measuring IDR,
Extension: Concepts and Practices. Intermediate Technology Publications, London,
Wagner et al. (2011) conclude that beyond the metrics to measure ID
pp. 13-22.
output representation in journals, it is important to understand the
Benoit, M., Rizzo, D., Marraccini, E., Moonen, A.C., Galli, M. Lardon, S., Rapey, H.,
131
