M.F. Acevedo et al.
Pop. 3B
1960
Fig. 1. Historical perspective leading to prospective future. Pop. Human population.
FMDG E First Millennium Development Goal.
2. Historical perspective: the last half of the past century
In the 1960s, the accelerated growth of the world's population led to
predictions of increased famines and mortality, and of reaching the
limits of growth within a century (Fig. 1) (Meadows et al., 1972). The
Malthusian proposition that food demands, growing exponentially with
population, would exceed food supplies, growing only arithmetically,
seemed inevitable. Yet in the last 50 years, world population has more
than doubled while the number of world's starving has not increased,
albeit remaining obscenely large.
Our food production per head has generally increased and the prices
of food had not shown a substantial tendency to increase but they may
start to do so according to recent signals (FAO, 2015). Since 1961,
global agricultural output has increased by 2.25% per year, while the
increase in land devoted to farming has only increased by 0.24% per
year (Fig. 1) (Pardey et al., 2012). Global population increased by 1.7%
per year, but the people engaged in farming only grew by 1.2% per
year. This apparently good performance has occurred through geo-
graphical shifts in global production; most of the increase of the value
of food production per head, has happened in the upper middle-income
countries (Pardey et al., 2012). For instance, in 1961, Russia accounted
for 15% of global wheat production and was the world's largest pro-
ducer, but by 2008, Russia only accounted for just over 8% of global
production, with India and China together accounting for almost 29%
(up from 12% in 1961).
The achievements of the last 50 years largely due to the Green
Revolution (based on higher-yield varieties of rice, wheat, and maize)
have also caused adverse effects on the environment and human health
(Kedia and Palis, 2008). Negative effects on agro-ecological functions
have in turn resulted in decreased crop yields (Boutsen, 2009). Con-
cerned that the pace of yield improvement had slowed by the turn of
the century, Conway (1999) proposes a 'Doubly Green Revolution'
(Fig. 1) which would be more productive and more 'green' (in en-
vironmental terms) than the first, and targeted towards the poor.
Indeed, Pardey et al. (2012) provide evidence of the slowdown in
world crop yield growth and question whether current trends in agri-
cultural R&D are likely to reverse the decrease in productivity. Global R
&D spending has grown impressively in real terms (2005 purchasing
power parity, PPP, rates), but this growth has largely happened in the
middle-income countries, especially Brazil, India and China. Dis-
appointingly, there is little sign of strong spending growth rates in sub-
Saharan Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, which indicates a
growing divide with the poorest countries falling farther behind
(Pardey et al., 2012). A major contribution to food production would be
to make results from R&D spending in high income and middle-income
Global Food Security 16 (2018) 127-132
which calls for sizable increases in agricultural production
Pop 9.6B
economies available to the poor farmers in south Asia and Sub-Saharan
Africa where R&D is still lagging (Pardey et al., 2016). IDR on effective
technology adoption by farmers should accompany the transfer of such
3. Prospective futures: the first half of this century
By 2050, human population may grow to 9.6 billion or 2.0 people
ha of cultivated land (per 2010 land area when we had 1.5 people
(Bruinsma, 2009) (Fig. 1). Increasing food production requires ex-
panding cultivated area (extensification) or increasing yields on pre-
sently cultivated land (intensification); the latter either by direct in-
creased yields, or through changes to crop mix (fiber, feed, and biofuel).
As Hertel (2011) notes, 77% of the growth in global crop production
Goal-directed ID research needed:
over the last half century resulted from increased yields, 9% from in-
social and environmental
creased cropping intensity, and only 14% from expansion of crop area.
Bruinsma (2009) projects that only 9% of future output increases (to
2050) may come from extensification.
Indeed, it is commonly accepted that there is little scope for ex-
pansion of agricultural land without encroaching on land devoted to
environmenta protection. Available land is unevenly distributed be-
tween regions and countries, being skewed against those countries that
have most need to raise production (Godfray et al., 2010). Irrigated
agriculture on prime land has relieved some pressure on land expan-
sion, but many irrigation systems are performing below their potential,
calling for improvements in water use efficiency (HLPE, 2015) and the
global expansion of irrigated area has stalled to 0.6% per year after
growing twice as much in the 1990s.
Yields can be improved with new varieties, produced with sustained
R&D, better capable of coping with adverse conditions, but they can
also be improved by closing the 'yield gap' the difference between the
yield potential of crops in a given agro-ecological and climatic zone and
the yields actually achieved by farmers in those zones. Although much
of irrigated agriculture around the world, and much of developed
country agriculture show rather small yield gaps, the gaps remain very
substantial (-50%) in rain-fed agriculture, in much of Africa and of
Eastern Europe. If these gaps could be closed, some analysts conclude
that we can feed another 2 billion with present technologies, and with
present cultivated land areas (Hertel, 2011).
The parts of the world exhibiting substantial yield gaps are also
those regions lacking market infrastructure and supply chains.
Furthermore, closing these gaps requires more inputs and resources,
which will become more constraining in the future. Nevertheless, the
emerging price signals should encourage more sustainable adaptations
and innovations, providing there is sufficient investment in both agri-
cultural R&D, infrastructure and institutional reform.
Poverty and lack of access to food are as important as limited food
production in determining food insecurity (Scanlan, 2001). Areas with
the greatest water loss and land degradation correspond with areas of
the highest rural poverty and food insecurity (deVries et al., 2003).
Improving food security while limiting impacts on ecosystems calls for
both the development of sustainable practices and the appropriate
economic and institutional environment (FAO, 2011).
Providing enough, for all, forever, requires more than generating
the capacities of supplying food. It also requires adaptation and in-
novations in what we consume, and in our abilities to generate sus-
tainable incomes to re-create worthwhile livelihoods. Aside from the
impressive growth in global food production over the past half century,
a major factor in the reduction of relative food insecurity has been the
growth in incomes providing the previously poor with the where-
withal to purchase food. Without growth in incomes, we condemn
people to food insecurity, poverty, and ill health. Economic growth is
therefore a necessary requirement for both food and livelihood security,
and will lead inevitably to both greater demands on our increasingly
scarce land resources as well as to substantial changes in diets and
Agricultura output
growth 2.25% yr1
Pop.
Cultivated land
increased
20%
Percent people
undernourished declined
1990
Historical perspective
Green Revolution
ID research on consequences:
social and environmental
Agricultural output
needs to double
R&D output.
Cultivated land constant
Reduce percent people
undernourished
Prospective future
Doubly Green Revolution
11%
2015
FMDG
2000
201o
2050
128
