Ecology and Society 23(1): 14
htps:llwvwwecologyandsocietyorglvol23lissllartl4
used to supplement the results of on-farm evaluation, especially
baseline assessment stage, which helps to build trust, interest, and
to estimate the benefits of resilience and mitigation benefits
common purpose. But it can also lead to "messy" processes, where
through time In the second step, the final portfolios are evaluated
external agencies may wish to promote scaling-out processes
by farmers on a larger scale Crowdsourcing of experiences is used
prematurely, even while baseline evidence is being collected.
in order to understand farmers' preferences and technology
adaptation domains across CSV sites in the region. Due
RESULTS
consideration is also given on the identification and evaluation of
Distribution of climate-smart villages and their climate
constraints and barriers to adoptions of interventions along with
representativeness
ways to overcome them.
The CCAFS started piloting the CSV AR4D approach in 2012
Scaling up and scaling out: Once intervention portfolios are
in Africa (Burkina Faso, Ghana, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Kenya,
successfully demonstrated, the evidence generated in the CSVs is
Ethiopia, Tanzania, and Uganda) and South Asia (Bangladesh,
used to contribute to scaling up and out promising innovations.
India, and Nepal). In 2014, more projects were established in Latin
Scaling mechanisms tested across the regions include:
America (Colombia, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua) and
Southeast Asia (Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, and Philippines).
Horizontal scaling (scaling out) of climate-smart options:
Currently, there are 36 CSV sites across the CCAFS's focal regions
CSVs provide demonstration sites for farmer-to-farmer
(Fig. 4).
learning (often through self-help groups or producer
organizations) and/or enable local promotion of CSA
The global representativeness of the CSV site network is evaluated
options through local government plans, programs, and
using a climate analog tool (Ramirez-Villegas et al. 2011) The
policies or through private-sector business models.
similarity between the monthly climates of each CSV with those
of all other pixels with the same production system was computed
Vertical scaling (scaling up): CSV research and lessons
using WorldClim data of precipitation and temperature (Hijmans
learned provide evidence for the efficacy of practices,
technologies, services, processes, and institutional options
et al. 2005). We give equal weight to each parameter and account
hemispheric differences (Jones and Thornton 2000) Although
and are thus able to: influence large-scale CSA investment
temperature and precipitation are not the only climatic drivers,
plans; promote mainstreaming of institutional changes;
they do explain much of the variation in agricultural production
and/or inform policy instruments.
worldwide (Ray et al. 2015). We then assessed how globally
Horizontal scaling out is done from farmer to farmer through
representative the entire set of sites was-each of the 36 CSV sites
networking using ICT-based tools, farmers' fairs, farmer
encompasses between three to seven localities for a total of (n
exchange visits, and participatory videos of the adopted
249)-b taking the maximum similarity value across all CSVs
technologies, or through engagement with local government
for each pixe (Fig. 5).
institutions. Connecting with women's organizations is another
A substantial part of the global tropics and subtropics are highly
effective scaling-out approach. Institutional and financial needs
representative, especially across the Sahel and South and
are determined, for both local and national (or subnational)
Southeast Asia (Fig. 5). An area of ca. 2 million ha has 80%
contexts, often using appropriate business models. The potential
similarity for crops and pastures with ca. 4 and 5 million ha having
for consolidation and convergence of current agricultural
60% similarity. The tropical South America sites represent few
development schemes/plans in the region is explored. For
other areas. Popayan (Colombia) represents only a limited
instance, national programs/schemes on water management,
amount of the highly diverse agricultural landscapes of the Andes
alternative energy, agricultural extension, and subsidies in
or of Brazilian agricultura areas. In contrast, the CSVs of Central
agricultural inputs such as farm machinery, seeds, and fertilizers
America, which are lower and drier, are more broadly
can have added value to leverage resources and investments from
representative.
different sources into adaptation and mitigation goals, and
minimize transaction costs and maximize synergies in CSVs.
Climate change is likely to alter the CSVs' climates, thus
Consideration of national and regional gender machineries and
potentially altering their global representativeness. Therefore,
social development programs also helps to integrate social
representativeness of current CSV sites under future (2030s)
inclusion concerns into the CSVs as well as to orient social
climates was also analyzed using bias-corrected climate change
development programs to climate change impacts and action.
projections from the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project
Phase 5 (CMIP5) ensemble (Taylor et al. 2012) data for 33 general
Monitoring and evaluation provide feedback to the CSV design
circulation models for the representative concentrations pathway
process, which is based on learning and adjustment. Finally,
8.5. Results showed that, by the 2030s, similarities change only
adaptation pathways for the CSA approach-including
slightly, with most areas remaining within +5% of historical
technology and services portfolios, capacity building programs,
representativeness. Therefore, changes by the 2030s are not
institutional and financial mechanisms, and potentia costs and
expected to alter the global representation of the CSV network.
benefits of program implementation-ar presented to policy
Thus, it is clear that the current CSV sites represent a large
makers for scaling up through replication in other sites, or
agricultural area of the world facing diverse climatic risks, and
provision of incentives for adoption through large-scale
these sites will remain crucial for adaptation learning even in the
agricultural investment plans. Although conceptually this step is
future.
placed at the end of the sequence (Fig. 2), it can vary according
to the CSV context. Individuals and institutions with policy reach
The CSV approach followed in Asia, Africa, and Latin America
are often engaged early in the process, sometimes even in the
is very similar but highly contextualized in local situations. The
