Ecology and Society 23(1): 14
ttpsllwwwecologyandsocietyorglvolz3lisllartl4l
Sylhet, Barishul
& Khulna
Bangladesh
Ma, My Loi
& Tra Hat
Vietnam
Ekxang
& Pailom
Lao PDR
Guinayangan
Philippines
Rohal Suong
Cambodia
Fig. 4. Climate-smart village sites located in 20 countries. These sites are typically in areas that have been identified as climate
change "hotspots."
Bardiya, Dang, Rupandehi,
Nawalparasi, Gorkha & Mahotari
Nepal
Fakara
Punjab & Haryana
Niger
India
Olopa
Guatemala
Yatenga
BurkinaF
Bihar
Santa Rita
India
Honduras
Kaffrine
Karnataka
Senegal
Borana
India
Cinzana
Ethiopia
EI ITuma
Mali
Cauca
Hoima
La Dalia
Colombia
Lawra Jirapa
Uganda
Nyando
Andhra Pradesh
Nicaragua
Ghana
Rakai
Kenya
India
Uganda
Wote
Kenya
Lushoto
Tanzania
Latin America Colombia, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua
West Africa Burkina Faso, Ghana, Mali, Niger, Senegal
East Africa Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda
Southeast Asia Cambodia, Lao PDR, Philippines, Vietnam
The geographic designation employed and the presentation of material
in this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever
South Asia Bangladesh, India, Nepal
on the part of CCAFS concerning the legal status of any country,
territory, city or area or its authorities or concerning the delimitation of
Climate-Smart Village site
its frontiers or boundaries
following section provides brief details of the approach used in
CSV design: A multistakeholder platform of CGIAR centers,
different regions.
national agriculture research system (NARS) private sector and
The CSV approach in South Asia
farmer groups proposed a range of technologies, practices, and
services. The interventions were aimed at increasing farm yield,
The CSV sites in South Asia are located in Punjab-Haryana,
income, input use efficiency (water, nutrients, and energy) and
Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka states in India, six
reducing GHG emissions. The options were prioritized by either
districts in Nepal (Rupandehi, Mahotari, Nawalparasi, Dang,
(a) choice experiments with farmers and local governments
Bardiya, and Gorkha) and in Barisal, Sylhet, and Khulna
(Taneja et al. 2014) or (b) the climate-smart adaptation
divisions of southern Bangladesh. The CSV approach in South
prioritization toolkit (Shirsath et al. 2016). The selected
Asia is described for the Punjab-Haryana sites.
interventions included crop diversification, conservation
agriculture (minimum tillage, residue retention, laser leveling)
Baseline: The region, important for the food security of all
countries in South Asia, is dominated by rice-wheat systems. The
improved varieties, weather-based insurance, and agroadvisory
services, precision agriculture (leaf color charts, sensor-based
key climatic risks are variable rainfall, increasing frequency of
hailstorms, postharvest rains, and high temperatures especially
nutrient/irrigation delivery systems) and agroforestry. Farmers'
cooperatives were set up for custom hiring farm machinery,
during wheat grain-filling. Widespread use of diesel pumps for
irrigation, especially for paddies, high use of inorganic fertilizers,
securing government credit for inputs, and sharing of experiences
residue burning are resulting in high GHG emissions in these CSV
and knowledge.
sites. Additional challenges are declining soil fertility and organic
Creating evidence: The short-listed options were trialled at the
matter, monocropping, and depletion of the water table (Singh
CSV sites to quantify trade-offs and synergies. The results showed
2013, Centre for Environmental and Agricultural Policy
that tillage practices and residue incorporation increased rice-
Research, Extension and Development 2013, Bangladesh Centre
wheat yields by 5-37% and income by 28-40% and reduced GHG
for Advanced Studies 2013). Land is scarce, meaning that the
emission by 16-25% (Singh et al. 2009, Jat et al. 2014). Zero till
potential for expanding the farmed area is very limited. Climate
with nutrient management increased crop yields by 11-58% and
change will further exacerbate pressures on land and water
net income by 22-32% and reduced GHG emissions by 79-88%
resources.
in the rice-wheat system (Aryal et al. 2014, Sapkota et al. 2014,
