Ecology and Society 23(1): 14
htips:llwwwecologyandsocietyorglvol3lissllartl4[
water relations. Crop varieties tolerant of stress, pests, and
diseases, better timing and methods of crop establishment and
extension services. The diverse objectives of multiple stakeholders
need-based water and nutrient applications are also promising.
have always been included, but overall, poverty in developing
countries is what forces farmers to maximize their incomes. In
The CSVs provide the means by which farmers can explore these
contrast, national policy makers focus on poverty alleviation as
synergies. Improvement in soil properties and concomitant yield
well as food security.
benefits due to CSA technologies take a long time (Gathala et al.
2011). The emphasis in CSVs is not on rediscovering or further
National and internationa agencies are often interested in GHG
testing them, but rather on evaluating and demonstrating their
mitigation from agriculture. Modeling can aggregate data from
synergies with services such as weather forecast-based
field trials and extrapolate them to homogenous agroecological
agroadvisories, crop insurance, and ICT-based knowledge and
regions, which can make CSVs a useful approach for a variety of
market management in current as well as future climate scenarios,
stakeholders. Modeling can also be used to understand their
and in bringing a climate lens to their evaluation to understand
effectiveness in future climate scenarios.
how well they deliver on resilience and mitigation.
Results from the different regions show that multistakeholder
The literature warns about the dangers of implementing blanket
platforms and policy-making networks are key to effective up-
adaptation strategies without careful consideration of their
scaling. The effectiveness is increased when paired with capacity
potential disadvantages (Magnan et al. 2016). For example,
enhancement, learning, and innovative approaches to support
conservation agriculture can be precarious for some smallholders,
farmers' decision making (Westermann et al. 2015). Challenges
because it does not work in all agroecological settings. In some
remain to promote uptake in the realities of local farming.
cases, the benefits can only be realized by adopting them together
Nevertheless, CSVs are a highly effective mechanism for bringing
with other technologies (Pittelkow et al. 2014, Brouder and
climate-smart options to scale and for forging links from the local
Gomez-Macpherson 2014) Unintended negative consequences
level to national policy processes.
can undermine CSV efforts if agronomic trials cannot be
evaluated in diverse agroecologies and climate scenarios. This
CONCLUSION AND WAY FORWARD
remains a serious challenge. The CSVs address this issue by
Climate-smart agriculture has shown promise at the local scale,
indepth analysis of each technology in present climates and also
but it has still not reached scale in most countries. This could be
assess their effectiveness in rapidly changing future
due to several barriers. For example, agriculture is not always the
socioeconomic scenarios (Vervoort et al. 2014). Modeling is
main priority at the local level, where there may be other priorities
therefore a very important tool in CSVs for supplementing
such as sanitation, health, or education. Adaptation to climate
technology evaluation done in on-farm research platforms It is
change may involve nonagricultural strategies such as migration,
also essential to simulate the likely performance of technologies
outside employment, and diversification from agriculture. The
in future climates and to identify early any potential
latter is already occurring in the population-rich and resource-
maladaptation Such work is in progress (Shirsath et al. 2016).
scarce countries of South Asia. Poor infrastructure related to
agriculture, including technologies, services, inputs, and access to
Synergies across scale: from local evaluation to global policy
markets, is a major issue in subsistence agricultural systems of
needs
Africa. There is also little capital available for investment in
The primary unit of CSVs is generally the local administrative
agriculture which limits development of adaptation options such
unit it belongs to, which makes it easier for uptake and to replicate
as demand-based climate information services and crop
elsewhere. South Asia and Africa sites used a "village" as the
insurance. Another key constraint could be that CSA technologies
primary unit because scaling up and out was linked with the local
are not well targeted because trade-offs among interventions are
and national government boundaries. This avoided the complex
not well understood. There is often a mismatch and lack of dialog
ownership, management, and financial issues that arise when
between science and policy needs in general and specifically about
using ecological units.
CSA.
In Latin America and Southeast Asia, however, the approach was
Although many of these are generic barriers that prevent
applied at a landscape level as the agricultura systems are highly
agriculture development they are particularly relevant to CSVs,
diverse, and communities considered that they depend heavily on
which are dependent on knowledge products. We trust,
resources outside the village (e.g., through ecosystem services). In
nevertheless, that the CSV approach is a step further to overcome
Latin America, social dynamics are important in adoption of new
some of these challenges by being more integrative and inclusive.
technologies, which are codeveloped and validated by local
As we have demonstrated earlier (Fig. 4), the current CSV sites
farmers. Involving the central government has not always worked,
represent a large agricultural area of the world facing diverse
SO livelihood improvement has often originated from bottom-up
climatic risks, and these sites will remain crucial for adaptation
self-empowerment. Therefore, CCAFS has chosen a diversity of
learning even in the future. In India and Nepal, CCAFS partners
scales to bound CSVs that focus on local concerns, thus increasing
have adopted the CSV approach and have expanded the number
chances of achieving impact.
to thousands of CSVs, where results of CCAFS'S AR4D
A major objective of the CSV approach is scaling out local
approach are applied (Aggarwal et al., unpublished manuscript).
adaptation plans into existing policy space using strategies that
There is still a need for greater evidence for the CSV approach in
are appropriate to the region concerned. In South Asia, the focus
different agroecological environments It is especially important
was on large-scale piloting for uptake and policy linkage In Latin
to understand the trade-offs between food security, adaptation,
America and Africa, the focus was on value-chain linkage,
and mitigation in current and future socioeconomic and climate
science-policy platforms, and scaling out to participatory
scenarios. More research is needed to demonstrate that
