N. Agustiani et al.
European Journal of Agronomy 101 (2018) 10-19
management practices on crop growth, development, and yield
Hybrid Maize) for modern rice and maize cultivars and to evaluate the
(Grassini et al., 2015; Rotter et al., 2015).
calibrated models on their ability to estimate yield potential for major
Multiple rice and/or maize cropS are often grown on the same piece
rice-maize cropping systems in Indonesia.
of land within a 12-month period in the humid tropical environment of
South East Asia (Pasuquin et al., 2014). For example, up to three crops
2. Materials and methods
per year can be grown in irrigated and favorable rainfed environments
of Indonesia. Due to a combination of high cropping intensity and large
2.1. ORYZA and Hybrid Maize models
arable land, Indonesia is the third and fifth largest rice and maize
producing country in the globe, respectively (FAOSTAT, 2017). Still,
ORYZA is a crop model that simulates rice growth and development
Indonesia has imported substantial amounts of maize and rice grain
(Kropff et al., 1993; Bouman et al., 2001; Li et al., 2017). Briefly, the
during recent decades. At the same time, there has been massive
model simulates CO2 assimilation and respiration on a daily basis. Daily
cropland conversion for industrial and residentia uses (d'Amour et al.,
net carbon assimilation is estimated by difference and allocated to
2017). Hence, it is crucial for Indonesia, as well as other countries in
roots, stems, leaves, and panicles, with partitioning coefficients de-
South East Asia, to understand what the extra crop production potential
pendent upon developmental stage. For simulating Yp, ORYZA assumes
is on existing cropland and identify those factors that constrain on-farm
no limitations by water and nutrients and an absence of insect pests,
yields. Few studies have attempted to estimate rice and, in particular,
weeds, and diseases. ORYZA has been used to simulate Yp across major
maize Yp and Yw in Indonesia using crop simulation models (Boling
rice producing areas in the world (e.g., Espe et al., 2016; Guilpart et al.,
et al., 2004, 2007, 2008; Timsina et al., 2011; Laborte et al., 2012;
2017a,b; Stuart et al., 2016; Yuan et al., 2017). The latest version of
Pasuquin et al., 2014; Stuart et al., 2016). These previous attempts
ORYZA (ORYZA V3) has been released recently, with an improved
suffered from limitations and/or sources of uncertainty. First, most of
capability to simulate rice growth and yield across a wide range of
these studies have focused at estimating Yp (or Yw) using models that
environments (Li et al., 2017). ORYZA requires calibration of six
were calibrated for individual site-years; hence, it is unknown how
coefficients to account for cultivar differences in phenology: develop-
robust these models are at estimating Yp (or Yw) across Indonesia's
ment rates for juvenile (DVRJ), photoperiod-sensitive (DVRI), panicle
wide range of environments and cropping systems. Second, previous
development (DVRP), and reproductive phases (DVRR), photoperiod
studies have relied on coarse-scale gridded and/or generated weather
sensitivity, and maximum optimum photoperiod. Another set of coef-
data, which can lead to important biases in simulated Yp and Yw (van
ficients related to dry matter partitioning at different crop stages also
Wart et al., 2013, 2015). Finally, many of these studies have used
requires calibration. Consequently, calibrating ORYZA for a given
generic model coefficients derived from outdated cultivars that are not
variety requires detailed experimental data (dates of heading, anthesis,
representative of modern high-yielding cultivars and/or from experi-
and physiological maturity, leaf area index [LAI], and dry matter pro-
ments that did not reach near-optimal conditions for crop growth,
duction and partitioning), management practices (plant density and
which may have led to an underestimation of Yp (or Yw). For example,
dates of sowing and transplanting), and daily weather data, including
Boling et al. (2004, 2007, 2008) reported Yp of ca. 4.5 Mg for
solar radiation and maximum (Tmax) and minimum temperature (Tmin).
irrigated rice in Central Java. We note that this estimate of Yp is lower
'Hybrid Maize' simulates maize growth and development for rainfed
than current average farmer yield in the same region (ca. 5 Mg ha-l and
and irrigated conditions (Yang et al., 2004, 2017). Hybrid Maize is si-
the Yp of ca. 9-10 ha expected for irrigated rice in South East Asia
milar in structure to ORYZA, but only requires a single genotype-spe-
(Kropff et al., 1996; Peng et al., 1999).
cific input parameter: growing-degree days (GDD) from crop emergence
Robust calibration and evaluation of crop models requires experi-
until the crop reaches physiological maturity. All other parameters
mental data from crops grown under near-optimal conditions that allow
governing photosynthesis, respiration, leaf area expansion, light inter-
expression of Yp (irrigated) and Yw (rainfed crops), including crop
ception, biomass partitioning, and grain filling are considered to be
variables (yield, phenology, etc.) and weather, soil, and management
stable across modern maize hybrids. For estimating Yw in rainfed crops,
data needed to simulate site-year specific conditions. However, it is
Hybrid Maize accounts for water supply amount and distribution as
difficult to ensure near-optimal growing conditions, even in controlled
well as soil properties influencing crop water availability such as soil
experimental plots, due to the multitude of factors influencing crop
texture, soil depth, and field slope. The model has been satisfactorily
growth and the difficulties in removing every single limiting factor
evaluated on its ability to reproduce observed yields in well-managed
across space and time (Cassman et al., 2003). These limiting factors
experiments that portrayed a wide range of rainfed and irrigated en-
include (i) incidence of insect pests and pathogens, which are especially
vironments, with yield ranging from near crop failure to 18 Mg ha
problematic in the humid tropics, (ii) insufficient supply of water (in
(Grassini et al., 2009; Yang et al., 2017). Hybrid Maize has been used
the case of irrigated crops) and plant nutrients, and (iii) sub-optimal
across many countries with diverse climate and soils to estimate Yp,
management in relation with transplanting, sowing date, plant density,
Yw, and yield gaps, determine yield goals to estimate nutrient re-
etc. (Lu et al., 2007; Laborte et al., 2012; GRiSP, 2013; Buresh et al.,
quirements, and evaluate management options (Witt et al., 2006;
2015; Castex et al., 2018; Stuart et al., 2016). Likewise, it is difficult to
Timsina et al., 2010, 2011; Grassini et al., 2011; Setiyono et al., 2011;
access high-quality measured weather and soil data in many regions of
Chen et al., 2011, 2013; Meng et al., 2013; Schulthess et al., 2013; van
the world, which is needed to conduct site-specific simulations of Yp
Ittersum et al., 2016). However, an explicit evaluation of Hybrid
and Yw (Grassini et al., 2015). Due to lack of data, many studies have
Maize's ability to reproduce Yp and Yw of maize in the humid tropics is
relied on coarse-scale or poor quality weather and soil data for model
lacking.
calibration and evaluation, which, as mentioned previously, can ser-
iously distort resulting Yp and Yw estimates (Van Wart et al., 2013,
2.2. Databases for model calibration and evaluation
2015). We are not aware of any explicit effort to calibrate and evaluate
crop models for modern high-yielding rice and maize cultivars in In-
2.2.1. Rice experimental data
donesia using data collected from well-managed experiments coupled
with high-quality on-site weather and soil data.
Two sources of experimental data were used for rice: (i) high-yield
(HY) experiments conducted by the Indonesian Center for Rice
The present study made a first step towards a better estimation of Yp
Research (ICRR) and (ii) ICRR's multi-location cultivar evaluation
and Yw in intensive rice- and maize-based cropping systems in tropical
humid environments using high-quality experimental data from
modern high-yield cultivars and measured weather data and soil
2 Yield gap is defined as the difference between Yp for irrigated crops (or Yw
properties. Our objective was to calibrate two crop models (ORYZA and
for rainfed crops) and average farmer yield (van Ittersum et al., 2013).
11
