M.F. Acevedo et al.
associated food requirements.
This dependence on continued economic growth, however, raises a
fundamental issue named by some as the 'trophic conundrum'
Czech (2008), based on ecosystem principles, argues that reconciling
the conflict between economic growth and environmental conservation
is not feasible. This issue is, essentially, a re-specification of the Mal-
thusian argument in biophysical terms. Viewed as a biological food
chain, economies convert primary resources into material consumption
goods and services, and there is clearly a limit to this process, implying
that continued economic growth can only be associated with continued
reduction of environmental quality.
The only apparent reconciliation of this conundrum is innovation
technological change to reduce the impact of our productive activities
on our natural environment. The trophic conundrum argument ignores
human capacity to generate 'capital' as recycled natural resources, in
much the same fashion as non-human biophysical forces and activities
recycle rocks, and waste, into soils, and water into streams and aquifers.
Not only do humans recycle natural resources into man-made resources
and assets or 'capitals', including social and human capitals, but they
also practice both natural and Lamarckian selection in their habits and
'inherited' practices adapting and adjusting their consumption mixes
to fit with their opportunities and capabilities. Whether we can produce
enough food to feed everyone over the long term, requires more than
examination of constraints on natural resources, we must also account
for our capacity to adapt and develop technological solutions (Scanlan,
2001).
West et al. (2014) find that there are relatively small sets of options
(places, crops, and actions) that could provide enough food to meet the
basic needs of continued population growth, while addressing en-
vironmental sustainability. They identify "leverage points" that focus
on reducing the yield gap, reducing environmental impacts, and deli-
vering more food from what is produced. Closing the yield gap to 50%
of attainable yields would contribute calories for -850 million people;
however, regions where closing the gap would be effective are con-
centrated in Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe. Increased water pro-
ductivity in precipitation-limited regions has the potential to decrease
water consumption by between 8 to 15%. Crops that are used for an-
imal feed and other nonfood uses (e.g., biofuels), diminish the calories
available to humans and result in a "diet gap"; if human-edible crops
currently used as non-food purposes were re-allocated to feed humans it
is estimated that it contribute food for an additiona 4 billion people
(West et al., 2014). Another opportunity or leverage point identified by
West et al. (2014) is to reduce food waste which currently amounts to
30-50% of food production. Small reductions of waste in a few coun-
tries could contribute food for several hundred million additional
people.
4. IDR on food production and the environment: successes and
opportunities
In this section, we provide examples of IDR approaches that have
been proposed, debated, and utilized to reconcile food production and
the environment. Along with these examples, we identify further ID
needs and opportunities. We conclude the section with a discussion of
integrative frameworks and identification of funding and publication
barriers.
4.1. Agricultural science: natural and social sciences
Today's agricultural disciplines, such as agronomy, crop science,
agricultural soil science, and agricultural economics evolved at the
frontier between plant biology, soil science, climatology, meteorology,
and economics among others (Lele and Norgaard, 2005). Certainly, the
Green Revolution involved the application of various disciplines (e.g.,
agronomy, hydrology, and farm management), but the revolution itself
hardly engaged in truly IDR. Indeed, much of the social science and
Global Food Security 16 (2018) 127-132
environmental research stemming from the green revolution is on the
consequences of the revolution, rather than undertaken to facilitate and
improve it (Fig. 1).
Environment friendly technologies for food production have
emerged through IDR between natural and social sciences. These
technologies include integrated pest management (IPM), that promotes
protecting crops by using natural enemies and thus promoting a healthy
environment and people, and natural resource management (NRM)
approaches, such as nutrient and pest management (to minimize ferti-
lizer and chemicals) and alternate wetting and drying to save irrigation
water (Carrijo et al., 2017).
4.2. Ecological sciences
Ecological disciplines have responded with approaches to research
the challenging environmental impacts of food production that con-
strain production itself. These include soil erosion, global climate
change, falling water tables and aquifer depletion (Acevedo, 2011).
Reconciliation approaches stemming from ecological perspectives in-
clude land-sparing (Green et al., 2005), sustainable intensification
(Tilman et al., 2011), agroecological principles and landscape ecology
(Perfecto and Vandermeer, 2010; Benoit et al., 2012). Debate is stil
unfolding on the benefits and potential consequences of these various
promising approaches while calls have been made to strengthen this
IDR by consideration of social issues including policy and justice
(Chappell and LaValle, 2011; Gordon et al., 2016; Hatt et al., 2016).
For this purpose, socio-ecological methods can be useful since they
capture interacting socio-economic and natural systems as complex,
dynamic, and adaptive. These methodologies include values and atti-
tudes of individuals and policy-making together with natural systems
dynamics Wittman et al. (2016) frame a reconciliation of food security
and biodiversity taking into account socio-ecological system properties
at multiple scales (from household to global).
4.3. Engineering, technology, quantitative approaches, and modeling
Together with increased collaboration between natural and social
sciences, we need to strengthen the collaboration between engineering
and the natural sciences, particularly biology. Better yet, we can benefit
from increased integrative ID between engineering, natural, and social
sciences. The CSISA, with the goal of benefiting > 8 million farmers by
the end of 2020, has highlighted the application of engineering in food
production systems, particularly in sustainable intensification practices
(e.g., Kumar et al., 2018). Examples include development of suitable
agricultural machinery, for irrigation, tillage, harvest, and post-harvest;
adoption is closely associated with infrastructure including electricity
and roads (Biggs and Justice, 2015; Mottaleb et al., 2016). Geospatial
technologies (remote sensing and geographic information systems, GIS)
play a role in understanding water resources and irrigation (Krupnik
et al., 2017). Integrating crop models with GIS allows exploration of
water productivity at a variety of spatial scales from the field scale and
the whole system or watershed level.
Agricultural engineering departments, which formed by collabora-
tion among several disciplines, have been major contributors of R&D on
food production, agricultura extension, and engaged in research of
relationships of agriculture and the environment. Moreover, several
leading US academic institutions with long standing in agricultural
science and engineering have recently developed innovative biological
and environmental engineering departments and curricula. This type of
initiative enhances collaboration with disciplines closer to biological
sciences, such as genomics and industrial biotechnology.
Beyond the traditional engagement of agricultura engineering,
which itself formed by ID activities, other engineering disciplines (such
as civil, environmental, and electrical) can contribute by collaboration
with natural sciences. For instance, ground-based monitoring systems
using low cost soil moisture sensors and data collection devices would
129
