K. Abdalla et al.
4
3
2
1
0
Fig. 7. Mean + standard error of aboveground biomass from non degraded
(ND), moderately degraded (MD) and highly degraded (HD) grassland.
Different lower case letter indicates significant different (P < 0.05) between
the degradation gradients. N = 18.
(Fig. 5). Li et al. (2015) pointed that lower soil temperature results in
lower mineralization rates of soil organic materials, hence lower soil
CO2 emissions. In addition, soil environments characterised by desic-
cated conditions and very low soil organic materials are likely to emit
lower CO2 amounts due to lower soil microbial activities (Fontaine
et al., 2003).
The moderately and highly degraded grasslands also emitted sig-
nificantly higher soil CO2 emissions relative to amount of aboveground
biomass produced per year than the non-degraded grassland (Table 1
and Fig. 3), despite significantly lower SOCs (Fig. 4A) and biomass
production (Fig. 7) than non-degraded grasslands. The foregoing result
suggests for every unit of C stabilized in the soil and aboveground
biomass produced, non-degraded grasslands emit less soil CO2 in
comparison to degraded grasslands. In other words, non-degraded
grasslands are economical than degraded grasslands with respect to C
usage. Given that grassland degradation is associated with other en-
vironmental challenges such as soil erosion and limited biomass pro-
ductivity to support livestock production, proper management of
axis 2
axis 1
Fig. 8. Principal components analysis (PCA) scatter diagrams for gross CO2 emissions (gross CO2), CO2 emissions relative to soil organic carbon stocks (CO2-SOCs)
and CO2 relative to produced biomass (CO2-biomass) as supplementary variables and selected factors as active variables. (A) scatter diagram with the two first PCA
axes (axis 1 and 2); (B) scatter diagram with axis 2 and 3.
Catena 167 (2018) 284-292
(B)
1
Gross CO2
0
CO2-SOCs
-1
1
grasslands is important for water security and economic emancipation
of rural communities, in addition to climate change mitigation.
The study results showing a general decrease of soil temperature
and gross soil CO2 emission with grassland degradation (indicated by
reduction in grass basal cover) did not confirm the proposed hypothesis.
However, soil CO2 emission relative to SOCs and produced biomass still
showed a general increase with grassland degradation suggesting that
other controlling factors, than soil temperature, had greater effects.
Further studies covering diverse environmental conditions are neces-
sary to identify and quantify the impact of factors with the most sig-
nificant impact on grassland soil CO2 emissions relative to SOCs and
biomass produced.
5. Conclusions
Three main conclusions can be drawn from this study performed on
South African grasslands with the aim was to evaluate the impact of loss
of grass basal cover on soil CO2 emissions. The first one is that grassland
degradation significantly decreases gross soil CO2 emission (the emis-
sions per surface area), with current results showing 11 and 62% lower
emission in moderate (25 < grass basal cover < 50%) and highly
degraded (0 < grass basal cover < 5%) than non-degraded grassland
(grass basal cover: 100%), which correlated significantly with soil or-
ganic carbon and nitrogen stocks. The second conclusion is that grass-
land degradation increases soil CO2 emission relative to soil carbon
stocks, which imply decreasing soil organic matter protection against
decomposers as grass basal cover decreases. The current study results
showed at least 41% more soil CO2 emission relative to soil carbon
stocks in degraded than non-degraded grassland The third conclusion
is that grassland degradation also increase soil CO2 emission relative to
biomass produced, with the study showing 613% more CO2 emission
relative to biomass produced in degraded than non-degraded grassland.
Thus, grassland degradation has a significant negative C footprint.
However, these results still need validation by performing longer-term
investigations at other study sites with different soil and environmental
conditions. In particular, research is required to investigate further the
possible underlying reasons for enhanced soil CO2 emission relative to
soil organic carbon stocks following grassland degradation. Such in-
vestigations could focus on the potential roles of (i) decreasing ag-
gregate stability; (iii) production of easily decomposable organic
axis 3
23
axis 2
33
axis 3
O2-biomass
-1
0
2st Principal component
ND
Grassland degradation
44
CO2-SOCs
axis 1
MD
biomass
HD
33
Principal component
(A)
1
0
-1
Gross CO2.
-1
0
1
291
