M.F. Acevedo et al.
prove very useful for baseline data and follow up water management
interventions (Acevedo, 2011).
Modeling socio-ecological systems allow studying land use dy-
namics in the context of contemporary hotspots of biodiversity as well
as agricultural landscape patterns (Acevedo et al., 2008). Adopting a
food systems approach also contributes to models taking into account
multiple spatia scales, processes, and levels (Ingram et al., 2010)
From the social sciences, economics and geography have established
their role in IDR, contributing quantitative and computational methods
such as econometrics, simulation modeling, and geographic informa-
tion systems. For example, Diagne et al. (2013) used an econometric
forecast of impacts of research prioritizing the benefits by discipline
(e.g., agronomic, breeding, post-harvest). Quantification and modeling
are also part, together with deliberative fora, of an agenda for agri-
cultural and food research based on ID work and a system-wide ap-
proach that integrates social and environmental issues (Horton et al.,
2017). In particular, working across disciplinary lines can have a
transformative effect on each discipline, and allow for integrated
thinking to identify, test, and implement technologies and policies
(Horton et al., 2017).
Thus, food and environment research requires a holistic or in-
tegrated understanding and synthesis of the interrelationships between
the people and natural resource base, and this involves socio-cultural,
economics, technological, ecological and political dynamics operating
at different scales and among different levels of social organizations
(Acevedo, 2011; Karunasagar and Karunasagar, 2016).
4.4. Socio-economics
Comparing concepts across disciplines, borrowing successful con-
cepts from one discipline to another, and building analog theories have
been traditional approaches to IDR. As an example, consider the ana-
logy between evolution of socio-economic systems and evolution of
nature (for which the rules for survival are exogenous). In the former,
humans make the rules and laws as well as the tools, so our rules for
survival are endogenous (Harvey, 2008). Conventional economics lar-
gely ignores the interactions between politics and economics, and the
fundamental differences between 'capital' and finance markets. The
latter consist of the transfer of ownership of assets and wealth between
individuals and organizations (with no obvious natural counterparts),
as well as the markets for goods and services (mimicking natural evo-
lution and the survival of the fittest).
The common representation of the three major dimensions of 'sus-
tainability' environmental, economic, and social takes for granted
the political dimension. Moreover, the critical activities of asset de-
velopment, maintenance, accumulation, and ownership establishment
and transfer are also missing. Yet it is precisely these processes and
their outcomes the development and maintenance of our capital
stocks, including natural capital in all its multifaceted forms, which
underlie any notion of sustainability and which at least partly de-
termine our future capacities and opportunities.
Researchers in the field of ecosystem services often recognize that
biology rather than economics should indicate the importance of nat-
ural environments to society. Only when our resources become scarce
relative to our needs do we take notice and take steps to seek a solution
(i.e. 'put a price' of the resource). This is a fundamental proposition
behind the environmental Kuznets curve (Galeotti et al., 2009), which
suggests that economic growth does not necessarily imply continued
reduction of environmental quantity and quality. Concerns about con-
serving the environment typically take second place to growth ambi-
tions during the early stages of economic development, but as wealth
and knowledge accumulate, so does concern and action over con-
servation.
Our institutions (codes and norms of behavior, rules and laws, and
socio-economic practices) are fundamental in directing both the types
and pace of our technology development. In this sense, meeting the
Global Food Security 16 (2018) 127-132
present challenges depends critically on ID that includes social science,
to cultivate better futures. We need to take more care over how we do
things the processes, negotiations and transactions through which we
reconcile our narrow self-interests (gilt) with our common social in-
terests (guilt) (Harvey, 2008).
4.5. Non-economic social sciences
Anthropology, sociology, and political science are very important
especially when considering policy and impacts, but have been under-
utilized. These disciplines focus on people's culture (beliefs, norms,
values, and practices), institutions, social issues, and governance. Their
contributions include framing the right questions to define the real
problems; developing appropriate interventions that cater to local
adaptations; facilitating innovation systems (including knowledge
generation, dissemination and utilization); formulation of appropriate
policies; and monitoring and evaluation of feedback mechanisms. Most
of all, they emphasize engagement and participation, essential if people
are to take ownership of their futures.
To illustrate the contributions of non-economic social sciences,
consider two experiences at the International Rice Research Institute
(IRRI). The first relates to promotion of IPM. In the 1970s, IPM did not
gain wide acceptance by farmers when introduced through classroom
training, but started to be adopted more broadly in the 1990s when
promoted by FAO through the farmer field school, which included
farmer participation and experiential learning (Matteson, 2000). The
IRRI's anthropologist formed part of an ID team with entomologists and
agricultural economists, that helped improve IRRI's IPM interventions
for smallholder farmers in Southeast Asia, particularly in the Phi-
lippines (Price and Palis, 2016). The anthropologist included farmers'
participation, stimulated scientists to interact with farmers, and de-
veloped rice IPM training principles that were later used in the farmer
field school This anthropological approach made a major difference in
success of the IPM approaches used now in many Asian countries, and
around the world (Braun and Duveskog, 2011).
As a second illustration, consider adoption of NRM technologies in
rice production, which had been a challenge because they require
adaptation and collective action. IRRI promoted best practices for NRM
to help rice farmers achieve increased profitability and food security as
well as to achieve environmental sustainability (Rejesus et al., 2014).
Anthropological research highlighted the importance of building on
farmer knowledge, experiential learning, and social capital to facilitate
adoption of NRM technologies and accelerating its spread for small-
scale farmers in Asia (Palis et al., 2004).
4.6. Integration frameworks
The goal of IDR is to integrate the epistemological traditions of the
individual disciplines in defining the problem and the methodological
comparative advantages of the different disciplines in the development
of knowledge (Godfray et al., 2010). As Axinn (1997) pointed out, new
knowledge tends to be highly specialized and so fragmented that we
have been unable to put it together to solve complex problems. Thus,
we need to integrate knowledge generated from individual disciplines,
and from interactions among disciplines. Clark and Wallace (2015)
advance one possible integration framework implemented as a set of
operations. These are problem orientation, social process, decision
process, multiple methods (mobilized from various disciplines), stand-
point (how researchers relate to the problem), and common interests
(higher-order goals). Such an integration framework makes explicit the
stages of identifying complex issues and the technological solutions to
address them. Life cycle thinking and analysis are also seen as a fra-
mework to work across disciplines in several science domains such as
environmental, technological, social, and economics. This methodology
allows identifying problematic issues in food supply chains and prior-
itizing research goals. It has been demonstrated by application to
130
