Ecology and Society 23(1): 14
htps:llwvwwecologyandsocietyorglvol23lissllartl4
Creating evidence: The portfolios of interventions were evaluated
Creating evidence: Early results show a shift to on-farm
in a research platform at the CSV site. Initial results in the Kaffrine
diversification, with households now adopting more than three
CSV site showed that improved varieties of maize and millet led
crop innovations greatly expanding on-farm choices for resilient
to an average 50% yield increase (compared with traditional
varieties (Recha et al. 2015). Dual-purpose crops, such as sweet
varieties). In addition, combined soil tillage, fertilizer
potatoes for food (tubers) and livestock feed (vines), are becoming
microdosing, and FMNR are potential sustainable bleintensificatior
more popular. The new livestock breeds have led to about one-
options that can improve farm incomes. It is expected that, as a
third of the small ruminants in Nyando to be cross-breeds that
cobenefit, better management of tree biomass could alleviate
are able to withstand heat stress, better utilize low quality forage,
hazards such as strong winds, erosion, etc. while contributing to
cope with disease burden, and recover from drought with faster
mitigation through carbon sequestration. Processing of
compensatory growth, therefore maturing to market weight
nontimber forest products (NTFP) by women's groups, for
within a shorter period compared with the local breeds (Gilbert
example, generated a revenue of 171 euros per hectare. The use
2015, Ojango et al. 2016).
of climate information services by farmers resulted in reduced
crop failure and increased by about 50% crop production (Lo and
Scaling out and up: Scaling-out activities were mainly focused on
Dieng 2015). Household modeling has also been used to create
farmer-to-farmer learning of climate-smart interventions
improved evidence on interventions (Rigolot et al. 2015).
through farmers' field days and exchange visits. These activities
are supported by a range of extension service activities from the
Scaling out and up: The CSVs across West Africa, and particularly
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and NGOs. Mobile ephones
in Kaffrine, have become learning grounds for policy makers and
for seasonal weather forecast information, newspapers, and local
other stakeholders who use emerging evidence and lessons to
radios were also used for information dissemination to a large
develop and implement development plans. Farmers' field days,
number of farmers.
exchange visits, and local "durbars" and study tours have been
conducted. Mobile phones, newspapers, and local radios have also
The CSV approach in Southeast Asia
been used for information dissemination. In Senegal, the national
The CSV sites in Southeast Asia are located in Vietnam (Tra Hat,
science-policy dialog platform has also been a useful framework
Ma, and My Loi), Lao PDR (Ekxang and Pailom), Cambodia
for sensitization through which research results and experiences
(Rohal Suong), and the Philippines (Guiniyangan). They
from the CSV sites are regularly shared by scientists and used to
represent diverse climatic risks, landforms, cropping systems, and
demonstrate effectiveness of diverse CSA technologies. Some
livelihood strategies. Sites range from small villages to larger
evidence from the CSVs has also been used to mainstream CSA
geographic regions (Ma, My Loi, Guiniyangan). The main
into major agricultura development programs (e.g., the
climate change issues addressed are sea-level rise, climate
Accelerated Program for Agriculture in Senegal).
variability, and mitigating GHGs from rice production systems.
The CSV approach in East Africa
The following sections focus on the sites in Vietnam.
In East Africa, the AR4D CSV sitesa located in Kenya (Nyando
Baseline: The sites in north and central Vietnam are hilly with
and Makueni), Ethiopia (Borana), Tanzania (Lushoto), and
agroforestry landscapes. Trees of Acacia and Eucalyptus spp.
Uganda (Hoima, Rakai). All sites are mixed crop-livestock
dominate, with agriculture covering only 10-20% of the area.
production systems, except Borana site in Ethiopia, which mainly
Unusual cold and hot spells, typhoons, and prolonged droughts
includes pastoral land.
are common. Livelihoods rely on a single rice crop during the
rainy season and livestock. The site in South Vietnam in the
Baseline: In East Africa CSVs, agricultural production is also
Mekong River delta is flat with low elevation. With water from
subsistence and rainfed, with cropping systems dominated by
the river and fertile alluvial soil, more than 80% of land grows
maize, bananas, and beans. Livestock mostly comprises cattle,
two to three successive rice crops each year. The major problem
small ruminants (goats and sheep), and chicken. Rainfall
is tidal salinity intrusion caused by low upstream water flow,
variability is manifested by late onset or early cessation, and
whereas crops are disrupted by seasonal floods or occasional
prolonged dry seasons that have become more frequent and
droughts.
intense (Recha et al. 2016) Incidences of diseases and pests are
also increasing, affecting crops and livestock production In
CSV design: The Vietnam sites emphasize community-based
addition, poverty, lost labor, and less diversified livelihoods make
responses to climate change adaptation. The local communities
these communities more vulnerable to climate-related risks, with
developed their strategy and action plan and implemented it
direct impacts on household food security and nutritional status.
through collective action to cope with climate change and
unfavorable weather conditions. They developed a community-
CSV design: In the East Africa CSV sites, the prioritized
led land-use plan aimed at enhancing farmers' income and
interventions included weather information delivery services,
resilience and then tested CSA technologies prioritized using
water harvesting and soil conservation techniques, rangeland
either structured prioritization tools or selected by village leaders
rehabilitation, community empowerment innovation (demonstration
and farmers in focus-group discussions. The resultant community
farms, seed multiplication farms, and village savings-and-loan
visions were harmonized with the existing national policy
schemes), introduction of drought-tolerant, short-duration, and
perspectives and long-term strategies of higher administrative
disease-resistan crop varieties, and plantation of suitable
levels (i.e., commune, district, and province). Each CSV's
agroforestry tree species. Livestock interventions included new
community organizer facilitated communication and coordinating
resilient and improved breeds of small ruminant breeds and
activities. Different farming activities created their own self-
feeding strategies (Ojango et al. 2015, 2016).
management groups within local government and existing social
organizations of the village.
