Ecology and Society 23(1): 14
htps:llwvwwecologyandsocietyorglvol23lissllartl4
Creating evidence: The portfolios of interventions were evaluated
in a research platform at the CSV site. Initial results in the Kaffrine
CSV site showed that improved varieties of maize and millet led
to an average 50% yield increase (compared with traditional
varieties). In addition, combined soil tillage, fertilizer
microdosing, and FMNR are potential sustainable bleintensificatior
options that can improve farm incomes. It is expected that, as a
cobenefit, better management of tree biomass could alleviate
hazards such as strong winds, erosion, etc. while contributing to
mitigation through carbon sequestration. Processing of
nontimber forest products (NTFP) by women's groups, for
example, generated a revenue of 171 euros per hectare. The use
of climate information services by farmers resulted in reduced
crop failure and increased by about 50% crop production (Lo and
Dieng 2015). Household modeling has also been used to create
improved evidence on interventions (Rigolot et al. 2015).
Scaling out and up: The CSVs across West Africa, and particularly
in Kaffrine, have become learning grounds for policy makers and
other stakeholders who use emerging evidence and lessons to
develop and implement development plans. Farmers' field days,
exchange visits, and local "durbars" and study tours have been
conducted. Mobile phones, newspapers, and local radios have also
been used for information dissemination. In Senegal, the national
science-policy dialog platform has also been a useful framework
for sensitization through which research results and experiences
from the CSV sites are regularly shared by scientists and used to
demonstrate effectiveness of diverse CSA technologies. Some
evidence from the CSVs has also been used to mainstream CSA
into major agricultura development programs (e.g., the
Accelerated Program for Agriculture in Senegal).
The CSV approach in East Africa
In East Africa, the AR4D CSV sitesa located in Kenya (Nyando
and Makueni), Ethiopia (Borana), Tanzania (Lushoto), and
Uganda (Hoima, Rakai). All sites are mixed crop-livestock
production systems, except Borana site in Ethiopia, which mainly
includes pastoral land.
Baseline: In East Africa CSVs, agricultural production is also
subsistence and rainfed, with cropping systems dominated by
maize, bananas, and beans. Livestock mostly comprises cattle,
small ruminants (goats and sheep), and chicken. Rainfall
variability is manifested by late onset or early cessation, and
prolonged dry seasons that have become more frequent and
intense (Recha et al. 2016) Incidences of diseases and pests are
also increasing, affecting crops and livestock production In
addition, poverty, lost labor, and less diversified livelihoods make
these communities more vulnerable to climate-related risks, with
direct impacts on household food security and nutritional status.
CSV design: In the East Africa CSV sites, the prioritized
interventions included weather information delivery services,
water harvesting and soil conservation techniques, rangeland
rehabilitation, community empowerment innovation (demonstration
farms, seed multiplication farms, and village savings-and-loan
schemes), introduction of drought-tolerant, short-duration, and
disease-resistan crop varieties, and plantation of suitable
agroforestry tree species. Livestock interventions included new
resilient and improved breeds of small ruminant breeds and
feeding strategies (Ojango et al. 2015, 2016).
Creating evidence: Early results show a shift to on-farm
diversification, with households now adopting more than three
crop innovations greatly expanding on-farm choices for resilient
varieties (Recha et al. 2015). Dual-purpose crops, such as sweet
potatoes for food (tubers) and livestock feed (vines), are becoming
more popular. The new livestock breeds have led to about one-
third of the small ruminants in Nyando to be cross-breeds that
are able to withstand heat stress, better utilize low quality forage,
cope with disease burden, and recover from drought with faster
compensatory growth, therefore maturing to market weight
within a shorter period compared with the local breeds (Gilbert
2015, Ojango et al. 2016).
Scaling out and up: Scaling-out activities were mainly focused on
farmer-to-farmer learning of climate-smart interventions
through farmers' field days and exchange visits. These activities
are supported by a range of extension service activities from the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and NGOs. Mobile ephones
for seasonal weather forecast information, newspapers, and local
radios were also used for information dissemination to a large
number of farmers.
The CSV approach in Southeast Asia
The CSV sites in Southeast Asia are located in Vietnam (Tra Hat,
Ma, and My Loi), Lao PDR (Ekxang and Pailom), Cambodia
(Rohal Suong), and the Philippines (Guiniyangan). They
represent diverse climatic risks, landforms, cropping systems, and
livelihood strategies. Sites range from small villages to larger
geographic regions (Ma, My Loi, Guiniyangan). The main
climate change issues addressed are sea-level rise, climate
variability, and mitigating GHGs from rice production systems.
The following sections focus on the sites in Vietnam.
Baseline: The sites in north and central Vietnam are hilly with
agroforestry landscapes. Trees of Acacia and Eucalyptus spp.
dominate, with agriculture covering only 10-20% of the area.
Unusual cold and hot spells, typhoons, and prolonged droughts
are common. Livelihoods rely on a single rice crop during the
rainy season and livestock. The site in South Vietnam in the
Mekong River delta is flat with low elevation. With water from
the river and fertile alluvial soil, more than 80% of land grows
two to three successive rice crops each year. The major problem
is tidal salinity intrusion caused by low upstream water flow,
whereas crops are disrupted by seasonal floods or occasional
droughts.
CSV design: The Vietnam sites emphasize community-based
responses to climate change adaptation. The local communities
developed their strategy and action plan and implemented it
through collective action to cope with climate change and
unfavorable weather conditions. They developed a community-
led land-use plan aimed at enhancing farmers' income and
resilience and then tested CSA technologies prioritized using
either structured prioritization tools or selected by village leaders
and farmers in focus-group discussions. The resultant community
visions were harmonized with the existing national policy
perspectives and long-term strategies of higher administrative
levels (i.e., commune, district, and province). Each CSV's
community organizer facilitated communication and coordinating
activities. Different farming activities created their own self-
management groups within local government and existing social
organizations of the village.
