M.F. Acevedo et al.
several case studies (Sala et al., 2017).
Three global change processes (climate, land-use, and economic)
compound the challenge of reconciling production and environmental
quality (Foley et al., 2011). The impacts of global change on food se-
curity are best examined adopting a "food system" view and developing
an ID framework to bridge disciplines and to show where each con-
tributes (Ingram et al., 2010). As we implement interventions programs
based on IDR, it is important to design standardized outcome measures
and share expertise across regions (Gaihre et al., 2016).
Conway (2012) is cautiously optimistic about our ability to increase
productivity providing that we make full use of available technologies,
increase funding to develop new technologies, employ sustainable
practices, and plan strategically at the market, sector and policy levels.
An implication of this recipe is that the 'quadruple green' revolution we
need (sustainable, effective, equitable and efficient) requires redoubled
ID efforts and a combination of innovation, markets, people and poli-
tical leadership (Fig. 1).
4.7. Funding and publications
ID is formally recognized as an excellent vehicle for innovation and
solving complex problems. However, research funding, publications,
and academic incentives seem to favor a non-ID behavior; this apparent
paradox has been lacking empirical confirmation (Rylance, 2015). For
instance, it is often asserted that ID grant proposals are less likely to be
funded than disciplinary proposals; Bromham et al. (2016) have re-
cently demonstrated it to hold true using data from one funding agency.
The study used an ID distance (IDD) metric that captures the relative
representation of different disciplines and their degree of difference and
a test case study from almost 20,000 proposals submitted to the Dis-
covery Program of the Australian Research Council over five funding
cycles. Reasons for lower probability of success for ID proposals are not
clear; some may be due to reviewer's lack of grasp of several disciplines
at once, accompanied by a perception of higher-risk and cost (Bromham
et al., 2016).
In contrast, other studies have found evidence of ID content in
funded projects. For instance, awards from the USA National Science
Foundation (NSF) in 2010-2011 were analyzed using a topic model and
data mining methods (Nichols, 2014). The ID nature of an award was
determined from tags assigned to disciplines and an ID metric based on
a diversity distance. In particular, 14,000 awards by the Social, Beha-
vioral, and Economics Sciences (SBE) directorate were found to have a
relative high degree of ID, which varies whether the ID includes other
disciplines within the directorate or from other directorates.
These studies demonstrate that it is possible to assess the inclusion
of ID in funding programs, which would allow funding agencies and
donors to guide their efforts to increase funding opportunities for IDR
projects.
Publications, another major criterion for tenure and promotion, is a
crucial challenge for IDR. The number of ID journals is increasing, but
only a few have prestige and high impact factor compared to those of
single-discipline journals. Articles in the very prestigious multi-
disciplinary journals, Science and Nature, do not include substantially
more IDR than other high-ranking disciplinary journals (Solomon et al.,
2016). However, the broad reach and high impact of Science and Nature,
has an influence in understanding across disciplines.
Leydesdorff and Rafols (2011) tested metrics to complement journa
impact indicator systems with a measure of ID content and impact.
These authors used a variety of correlation methods, distance and di-
versity measures, to rank ID content of ~8000 journals with 12 in-
dicators. This type of methodology could help orient ID researchers in
selecting outlets for their work as well as to inform reward systems in
academic institutions. However, caution is imperative when con-
sidering this quantitative approach. In a review on measuring IDR,
Wagner et al. (2011) conclude that beyond the metrics to measure ID
output representation in journals, it is important to understand the
Global Food Security 16 (2018) 127-132
concept of knowledge integration recognizing that integration can
occur within a single mind as well as among a team.
5. Conclusions
The desired IDR to reconcile productivity and conservation should
provide an effective way to identify the complex issues requiring so-
lution, to build upon the mobilization of various disciplines, the design
of innovative theoretical and methodological frameworks, and the
setting up of participatory institutional programs. Providing technolo-
gical solutions and designing appropriate policy interventions require
understanding of the social and environmental processes as a whole.
Technological fixes alone would not solve the food security and en-
vironment concerns but science, policy, and action could when working
all together.
Providing food for all is a primary problem that humanity continues
to face. Without food security, societies have a great difficulty to pro-
gress in most other aspects of their well-being, particularly a healthy
relationship with the environment. It is tempting either to assume that
we cannot solve the food production vs. environmental protection di-
lemma, or to trust that a segment of our modern science will come up
with a technological fix. However, we argue that we need a different
perspective: that of engaging in goal-directed IDR the full spectrum of
science and engineering, from the qualitative to the quantitative, from
the experimental to the theoretical. We contend a sustainable doubly
green revolution requires this type of research. ID work provides op-
portunities for synergies between productivity and conservation. To
exploit these opportunities, goal-directed IDR is crucial, since re-
searchers, producers, practitioners, and policy makers all need to be
involved.
Acknowledgments
This article is an outcome of discussions during the Science 4
workshop on IDR applied to food security and environment quality,
part of the 6th Internationa Conference on Environmental Future
(ICEF) held in Newcastle UK, July 2011. For all their valuable con-
tributions during discussions, we thank all participants in the work-
shop, especially Carlos M. Arriaga Jordan, Director of the Instituto de
Ciencias Agropecuarias y Rurales, Universidad Autonoma del Estado de
Mexico, Toluca, Mexico, and Rashid Hassan, Centre for Environmental
Economics and Policy in Africa, Dept. of Agricultural Economics
Extension and Rural Development University of Pretoria, South Africa.
We were inspired by Ben Malayang's words at the closing of the 6th
ICEF, 'Environmental problems are emotional, environmental solutions
are social and technical, and environmental decisions are political. We
express our gratitude to the reviewers, and to Achim Dobermann,
editor, Global Food Security, for providing excellent feedback that
helped improve this manuscript.
Conflict of interest
This research did not receive any specific grant from funding
agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.
References
Acevedo, M.F., 2011. Interdisciplinary progress in food production, food security and
environment research. Environ. Conserv. 38 (2), 151-171.
Acevedo, M.F., Callicott, B.J., Monticino, M. Lyons, D., Palomino, J., Rosales, J.,
Delgado, L., Ablan, M., Davila, J., Tonella, G., Ramirez, H., Vilanova, E., 2008.
Models of natural and human dynamics in forest landscapes: cross-site and croSS-
cultura synthesis. Geoforum 39 (2), 846-866.
Axinn, G.H., 1997. Challenges to agricultural extension in the twenty-first century. In:
Scarborough, V., Killough, S., Johnson, D.A., Farrington, J. (Eds.), Farmer-led
Extension: Concepts and Practices. Intermediate Technology Publications, London,
pp. 13-22.
Benoit, M., Rizzo, D., Marraccini, E., Moonen, A.C., Galli, M. Lardon, S., Rapey, H.,
131
