European Journal of Agronomy 101 (2018) 10-19
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
AGRONOMY
European Journal of Agronomy
ELSEVIER
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locateleja
Simulating rice and maize yield potential in the humid tropical environment
of Indonesia
Check for
updates
Nurwulan Agustiania Nanyan Dengb, Juan I. Rattallino Edreira Setia S. Girsanga, Syafruddina
Trias Sitaresmi Julie M.C. Pasuquin, Fahmuddin Agusa, Patricio Grassinib
a Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (IAARD), Ministry of Agriculture, Jakarta 12540, Indonesia
b Department of Agronomy, University of Vebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE, 68583-0915, USA
C International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), DAPO Box 7777, Metro Manila, Philippines
C E N O
ABSTRACT A
Keywords:
Little is known about the yield potential of modern rice and, particularly, maize cultivars in the tropical humid
Rice
environment of Indonesia where farmers can grow 2-3 consecutive crops on the same piece of land per year This
Maize
study provides a first step to fill this knowledge gap by using two crop simulation models to estimate yield
Yield potential
potential for rice and maize based on experiments conducted across multiple site-years and measured weather
Humid tropical climate
and soil data. Data collected from well-managed irrigated experiments, with observed yields ranging from 7.8 to
Crop model
10 Mg ha (rice) and 12 to 14.4 Mg ha (maize), were used to calibrate phenology and growth coefficients for
both a rice (OryzaV3) and maize crop model (Hybrid Maize). The calibration was performed for commercial,
high-yielding irrigated rice and maize cultivars. Subsequently, calibrated models were evaluated on their ability
to simulate yield potential using an independent database available from variety (irrigated rice) and fertilizer
(irrigated and rainfed maize) trials conducted at multiple site-years across major rice and maize producing areas
in Indonesia. Calibrated coefficients for rice were robust at reproducing observed leaf area, aboveground bio-
mass, and biomass partitioning to different plant organs. In the case of maize, close agreement between simu-
lated and observed yields suggests that the generic growth model coefficients originally derived for temperate
maize performed well at simulating yield potential of modern tropical maize hybrids. The two models re-
produced with acceptable performance the maximum observed yields across variety and fertilizer trials, except
for rainfed maize grown in a region with very heavy clay soils. Across site-years, yield potential for irrigated rice
and maize averaged 9.1 and 11.6 Mg ha respectively, while rainfed maize averaged 11.5 Mg ha
Comparison between simulated yields and average national rice and maize yields (5.2 and 5 Mg ha respec-
tively) suggested that room exists to further increase average farmer yields in rice and maize-based crop systems.
Our study also highlighted the high yield potential of modern maize hybrids grown in intensive crop sequences
in the humid tropics 10 Mg ha The two models evaluated here can be used to benchmark productivity in
rice and maize crop systems in the humid tropical environments of South East Asia and fine tune current
management practices and inputs application.
1. Introduction
available-water holding capacity, and terrain slope (Cassman et al.
2003; van Ittersum et al., 2013). Robust estimates of Yp and Yw are
Yield potential (Yp) is defined as the yield of a well-adapted crop
needed to assess potential extra food production, set realistic yield goals
cultivar with non-limiting water and nutrients, and with biotic stresses
and associated water and nutrient requirements, and identify oppor-
effectively controlled (Evans, 1993). Water-limited yield potential (Yw)
tunities for improving yield and input-use efficiency. Crop simulation
is similar to Yp but it also accounts for the influence of water supply
models provide a robust approach for estimating Yp and Yw (van
amount and distribution during the growing season and soil properties
Ittersum et al., 2013). These models rely on weather, soil, and man-
influencing the crop water balance, such as rootable soil depth,
agement data to simulate the influence of genotype, environment, and
Corresponding author.
E-mail address: pgrassini2@unl.edu (P Grassini).
1 Present address: National Key Laboratory of Crop Genetic Improvement, MARA Key Laboratory of Crop Ecophysiology and Farming System in the Middle Reaches
of the Yangtze River, College of Plant Science and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan, Hubei 430070, China.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eja.2018.08.002
Received 28 February 2018; Received in revised form 4 June 2018; Accepted 13 August 2018
1161-0301/ Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
