Ecology and Society 23(1): 14
httpsllwvwwecologyandsocietyorglvol23lisslartl4
Creating evidence: Although only initiated recently, community
CSV design: Community leaders agreed to formulate a
response has been enthusiastic in adopting crop diversification,
development plan considering climate as a key variable with
community pond water management, composting/manure
technical support from CCAFS and the Ecohabitats Foundation
management, and improved livestock management. Farmers and
(a local strategic partner). The first step was to develop
local partners state that the CSV approach gives farmers better
vulnerability analyses at the farm level identifying each farm's
access to advanced technologies permits their evaluation in local
hotspots of vulnerability to winds, precipitation and drought.
context, and through capacity strengthening, allows them to
These were aggregated to develop farm- and community-level
adapt to the changing climate.
adaptation plans that identified potential adaptation measures
Scaling out and up: The CSV approach can be integrated with
and prioritize them considering their effect on costs, income, and
existing development programs such as "new rural community"
food security. The plan included: more detailed weather
in Vietnam, "Samsang" in Laos, and "village-based community
monitoring; rainwater harvesting; vegetable gardens; biodigesters;
development" in Cambodia. The CCAFS is currently working
and improved bean varieties. Concurrently, the project addressed
with local governments to use the CSV approach to scale out CSA
youth and gender issues to strengthen their empowerment. Local
and inform decision making (Gonsalves et al. 2015, Cruz et al.
research and regional government institutions provided support,
2016). The Department of Agriculture's "Adaptation and
and CCAFS engaged with the national Ministries of Environment
Mitigation in Agriculture" project is a model for establishing
and Agriculture and the Presidency Office for Postconflict.
climate-resilient agricultural communities in ten regions in the
Creating evidence: Although the program is still new, the CSV
Philippines. It was also adopted as part of the CSA strategy of
model has already helped to strengthen the partnership between
Myanmar's Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Irrigation
local communities and national agriculture research systems in
(refer to http:l/www4.unfccc.intsubmissions/Lists
adaptation planning and implementation. The CSV sites are
OsPSubmisionUpload/53 84 131082106487817781.
becoming learning platforms for many stakeholders in relation to
Myanmaragriculture%20SBSTA44.pdf).
climate-smart interventions in agriculture. The site is a focus of
The CSV approach in Latin America
comprehensive research on GHG emissions in agricultural
systems. It also enables detailed modeling and accounting of
Sites in Latin America are located in Guatemala (Olopa),
GHG fluxes from different land-use options. Additionally, it helps
Honduras (Santa Rita), Nicaragua (E1 Tuma la Dalia), and
to develop a cost-benefit analysis of the implemented measures
Colombia (Cauca). The sites are in climatically vulnerable zones
to understand the economic benefit and the associated cobenefits,
where there is increasing soil erosion, desertification, erratic
such as biodiversity and water conservation.
weather patterns, widespread water scarcity, and high levels of
poverty. The region is characterized by agroecological diversity,
Scaling up and scaling out: The "Juntas de Accion Comunal"
the production of the of beans and maize commercial
have enabled community cohesion, which has been strengthened
crops such as coffee and cocoa, and some extensive livestock.
by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development's land
There are important agroecological differences between
titling process. The stakeholder platform has evolved within this
Colombia and Central America. The Cauca site in Colombia is
environment and now includes local and regional government and
described here.
other institutions. The platform supports implementing CSA
technologies, consolidates a resilient community, and improves
Baseline assessment: Households buy over 80% of the food they
livelihoods. Youth and children are part of the process and
consume because the farmland is used to grow coffee and sugar
recognize opportunities to improve the quality of life.
cane (Paz and Ortega 2014b). But coffee is becoming less suitable
due to temperature increases caused by climate change. Main
In addition, farmers share experiences and lessons learned
climate risks include reduced rainfall, increasing frost intensity,
through farmer-to-farmer learning and exchanges among
and higher daytime temperatures. Only 14% of farmers received
communities. Engagement with youth occurs through training in
climate information on extreme events at the start of the rainy
communication and GIS, which links academic institutions at the
season at a regional level. There was little formal government
community and municipal level to national policy. For example,
presence (Paz and Ortega 2014a, c), with few links with other
the Secretariat of Agriculture of Popayan is in the process of
organizations apart from the National Coffee Federation, which
including this methodology to formulate local adaptation plans
provides basic technical support. In Colombia, there was
as part of the municipal environmental education process. The
important community empowerment facilitated through the
Secretariat will also implement a pilot in the CSV and will
"Juntas de Accion Comunal" (nonprofit civil, social,
strengthen the Environment Youth Network at the municipality
level.
communitarian, and neighborship organizations that join forces
to add effort and resources to work toward solving the major
SYNTHESIS ACROSS CLIMATE-SMART VILLAGES
needs of the community (Decree 1930 of 1979, Legal Regime of
Bogota) and the women's cooperative, which catalyzed village
Synergies and trade-offs across interventions
development initiatives. Women were more likely than men to
The CSV approach integrates technologies and services that are
adopt CSA practices and to use climate information to plan
suitable for the local conditions. It provides multiple gains for
agricultural and household activities. Both men and women
food security and adaptation and for mitigation where
perceived changes in climate as mainly related to drought and
appropriate. Table 1 presents the diversity of CSV approaches in
increased temperatures (Twyman et al. 2016).
the five CCAFS regions. Baseline assessments across all five
regions indicate climatic risk sites and socioeconomic conditions
together with a lack of resource availability are key issues
