Ecology and Society 23(1): 14
httpsllwvwwecologyandsocietyorglvol23lisslartl4
Creating evidence: Although only initiated recently, community
response has been enthusiastic in adopting crop diversification,
community pond water management, composting/manure
management, and improved livestock management. Farmers and
local partners state that the CSV approach gives farmers better
access to advanced technologies permits their evaluation in local
context, and through capacity strengthening, allows them to
adapt to the changing climate.
Scaling out and up: The CSV approach can be integrated with
existing development programs such as "new rural community"
in Vietnam, "Samsang" in Laos, and "village-based community
development" in Cambodia. The CCAFS is currently working
with local governments to use the CSV approach to scale out CSA
and inform decision making (Gonsalves et al. 2015, Cruz et al.
2016). The Department of Agriculture's "Adaptation and
Mitigation in Agriculture" project is a model for establishing
climate-resilient agricultural communities in ten regions in the
Philippines. It was also adopted as part of the CSA strategy of
Myanmar's Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Irrigation
(refer to http:l/www4.unfccc.intsubmissions/Lists
OsPSubmisionUpload/53 84 131082106487817781.
Myanmaragriculture%20SBSTA44.pdf).
The CSV approach in Latin America
Sites in Latin America are located in Guatemala (Olopa),
Honduras (Santa Rita), Nicaragua (E1 Tuma la Dalia), and
Colombia (Cauca). The sites are in climatically vulnerable zones
where there is increasing soil erosion, desertification, erratic
weather patterns, widespread water scarcity, and high levels of
poverty. The region is characterized by agroecological diversity,
the production of the of beans and maize commercial
crops such as coffee and cocoa, and some extensive livestock.
There are important agroecological differences between
Colombia and Central America. The Cauca site in Colombia is
described here.
Baseline assessment: Households buy over 80% of the food they
consume because the farmland is used to grow coffee and sugar
cane (Paz and Ortega 2014b). But coffee is becoming less suitable
due to temperature increases caused by climate change. Main
climate risks include reduced rainfall, increasing frost intensity,
and higher daytime temperatures. Only 14% of farmers received
climate information on extreme events at the start of the rainy
season at a regional level. There was little formal government
presence (Paz and Ortega 2014a, c), with few links with other
organizations apart from the National Coffee Federation, which
provides basic technical support. In Colombia, there was
important community empowerment facilitated through the
"Juntas de Accion Comunal" (nonprofit civil, social,
communitarian, and neighborship organizations that join forces
to add effort and resources to work toward solving the major
needs of the community (Decree 1930 of 1979, Legal Regime of
Bogota) and the women's cooperative, which catalyzed village
development initiatives. Women were more likely than men to
adopt CSA practices and to use climate information to plan
agricultural and household activities. Both men and women
perceived changes in climate as mainly related to drought and
increased temperatures (Twyman et al. 2016).
CSV design: Community leaders agreed to formulate a
development plan considering climate as a key variable with
technical support from CCAFS and the Ecohabitats Foundation
(a local strategic partner). The first step was to develop
vulnerability analyses at the farm level identifying each farm's
hotspots of vulnerability to winds, precipitation and drought.
These were aggregated to develop farm- and community-level
adaptation plans that identified potential adaptation measures
and prioritize them considering their effect on costs, income, and
food security. The plan included: more detailed weather
monitoring; rainwater harvesting; vegetable gardens; biodigesters;
and improved bean varieties. Concurrently, the project addressed
youth and gender issues to strengthen their empowerment. Local
research and regional government institutions provided support,
and CCAFS engaged with the national Ministries of Environment
and Agriculture and the Presidency Office for Postconflict.
Creating evidence: Although the program is still new, the CSV
model has already helped to strengthen the partnership between
local communities and national agriculture research systems in
adaptation planning and implementation. The CSV sites are
becoming learning platforms for many stakeholders in relation to
climate-smart interventions in agriculture. The site is a focus of
comprehensive research on GHG emissions in agricultural
systems. It also enables detailed modeling and accounting of
GHG fluxes from different land-use options. Additionally, it helps
to develop a cost-benefit analysis of the implemented measures
to understand the economic benefit and the associated cobenefits,
such as biodiversity and water conservation.
Scaling up and scaling out: The "Juntas de Accion Comunal"
have enabled community cohesion, which has been strengthened
by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development's land
titling process. The stakeholder platform has evolved within this
environment and now includes local and regional government and
other institutions. The platform supports implementing CSA
technologies, consolidates a resilient community, and improves
livelihoods. Youth and children are part of the process and
recognize opportunities to improve the quality of life.
In addition, farmers share experiences and lessons learned
through farmer-to-farmer learning and exchanges among
communities. Engagement with youth occurs through training in
communication and GIS, which links academic institutions at the
community and municipal level to national policy. For example,
the Secretariat of Agriculture of Popayan is in the process of
including this methodology to formulate local adaptation plans
as part of the municipal environmental education process. The
Secretariat will also implement a pilot in the CSV and will
strengthen the Environment Youth Network at the municipality
level.
SYNTHESIS ACROSS CLIMATE-SMART VILLAGES
Synergies and trade-offs across interventions
The CSV approach integrates technologies and services that are
suitable for the local conditions. It provides multiple gains for
food security and adaptation and for mitigation where
appropriate. Table 1 presents the diversity of CSV approaches in
the five CCAFS regions. Baseline assessments across all five
regions indicate climatic risk sites and socioeconomic conditions
together with a lack of resource availability are key issues
