Ecology and Society 23(1): 14
ttpsllwwwecologyandsocietyorglvol23lisslartl4l
and land use to adjust to new climates (Porter et al. 2014). Many
The strategy of the CSV approach is to:
technologies and practices can increase crop yields, farm income,
1. Understand the effectiveness of a variety of CSA options
and eefficiency and may reduce GHG emissions (Khatri-
Chhetri et al. 2017)
(practices, technologies, services, programs, and policies) not
only to enhance productivity and raise incomes, but also to
Climate-smart agriculture (CSA) aims to increase sustainable
build climate resilience, increase adaptive capacity, and
agricultural production by adapting to and building resilience to
wherever possible, reduce GHG emissions;
climate change. It focuses on food security and national
development goals and, where possible, it also aims to reduce or
2. Develop (no regrets) solutions in anticipation of future
climate change impacts;
remove GHG emissions (Lipper et al. 2014, Steenwerth et al.
2014) Recent analyses indicate that although several CSA
3. Understand the socioeconomic, gender, and biophysical
programs and on-farm studies were successful, there is only weak
constraints and enablers for adoption; and
uptake of many innovative CSA practices and technologies
4. Test and identify successful adoption incentives, finance
(Campbell et al. 2014, Westermann et al. 2015). For example, new
opportunities, institutional arrangements, and scaling out/
water management practices and technologies in India were
up mechanisms while ensuring alignment with local and
adopted by only 12% of farmers in the last 40 years (Palanisami
et al. 2015). Similarly, adoption of mitigation options in
national knowledge, institutions, and development plans.
agriculture is very low in the developing countries (Thornton and
Figure 1 illustrates the major components of a typical CSV
Herrero 2010).
approach Climate-smart agriculture interventions are considered
One factor that contributes to low uptake of new technologies is
in a broad sense by including practices, technologies, climate
information services, insurance. institutions, policies, and finance.
that development practitioners lack evidence of how the
There is no fixed package of interventions or a one-size-fits-all
innovations can be practically incorporated into agricultural
approach Options differ based on the CSV site, its agroecological
systems. They need to know how farmers can achieve synergies
characteristics level of development, and capacity and interest of
and minimize trade-offs in implementing multiple interventions
the farmers and of the local government. The results of the CSV
on real farms. Climate change complicates this because its impacts
approach are usually a portfolio of CSA options and institutional
will vary across locations. Effective implementation therefore
and financial mechanisms that enable their successful adoption.
requires an integrated approach in which science, technology, and
Promising innovations are then available to be scaled out by the
decision making interact with local socioeconomic conditions
and cultures (Steenwerth et al. 2014).
national/subnational governments, nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs), and private-sector actors in regions with similar
To generate the evidence on the efficacy of climate-smart options,
agroecological conditions.
the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
(CGIAR) research program on Climate Change, Agriculture and
Fig. 1. Key components of a CSV AR4D approach.
Food Security (CCAFS) is implementing a climate-smart village
(CSV) approach in Asia, Africa, and Latin America (Aggarwal
et al. 2013). This paper describes the conceptual framework of
the CSV approach and the ongoing processes involved in
designing and implementing them. The CSV approach is a key
part of the agriculture research-for-development (AR4D) agenda
to address climate change challenges for food security (Campbell
Climate information
CSA practices and
et al. 2016). We illustrate different examples of the CSV approach
services and insurance
technologies
across a range of vulnerable agroclimatic regions and discuss
some emerging lessons learnt.
THE CLIMATE-SMART VILLAGE APPROACH
The CSV approach is an AR4D approach to test, through
National and
Empowered
Loca and national
participatory methods, technological and institutional options
subnational plans
farming
public and private
for dealing with climate change in agriculture It aims to generate
and policies
communities
institutions
evidence at local scales of what climate-smart agricultural options
work best, where, why, and how, and use this evidence to draw
out lessons for policy makers, agricultural development
practitioners, and investors from local to global levels. The testing
is done through a multistakeholder collaborative platform at CSV
Farmers'
Climate and
sites. The sites are a cluster of villages, small landscapes, or 10
knowledge
ag-development
finance
km2 grids. Every CSV site has its own theory of change (ToC; a
narrative description of the logical causal chain from research
activities to impact) linked to national priorities to ensure that it
is consistent with initiatives and actions across different scales.
The process builds on Lipper et al.'s (2014) theory of climate-
smart agriculture (CSA)
