Copyright O 2018 by the author(s). Published here under license by the Resilience Alliance.
Aggarwal, P. K., A. Jarvis, B. M. Campbell, R. B. Zougmore, A. Khatri-Chhetri, S. J. Vermeulen, A. Loboguerrero, L. S. Sebastian, J.
Kinyangi, O. Bonilla-Findji, M. Radeny, J. Recha, D. Martinez-Baron, J. amirez-Villegas, S. Huyer, P. Thornton, E. Wollenberg, J.
Hansen, P. Alvarez-Toro, A. Aguilar-Ariza, D. Arango-Londono, V. Patino-Bravo. O. Rivera, M. Ouedraogo and B. Tan Yen. 2018.
The climate-smart village approach: framework of an integrative strategy for scaling up adaptation options in agriculture Ecology and
Society 23(1):14 https://doi.org/10.5751/ES-09844-230114
Synthesis
The climate-smart village approach: framework of an integrative strategv
for scaling uD adantation options in agriculture
Pramod K. Aggarwal,2 Bruce Campbell Robert B. Zougmore Arun Sonia J. Vermeulen 1,6
Ana
Maria
Loboguerrero Leocadio S. Sebastian James Kinyangi Osana Bonilla-Findii Maren Radeny John Recha 1,8
Deissy Martinez-Baron Sophia Huyer Philip Thornton 1,8 Eva Wollenberg 1,10 James Hansen 1,11
Patricia Alvarez-Tore' AndresAguilar-Ariza
Victor Patino-Bravo Ovidio Rivera Mathieu Quedraogo
1,5 and Bui Tan Yen 1,7
ABSTRACT. Increasing weather risks threaten agricultural production systems and food security across the world. Maintaining
agricultural growth while minimizing climate shocks is crucial to building a resilient food production system and meeting developmental
goals in vulnerable countries. Experts have proposed several technological, institutional, and policy interventions to help farmers adapt
to current and future weather variability and to mitigate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This paper presents the climate-smart village
(CSV) approach as a means of performing agricultura research for development that robustly tests technological and institutional
options for dealing with climatic variability and climate change in agriculture using participatory methods. It aims to scale up and scale
out
the
appropriate options and draw out lessons for policy makers from local to global levels. The approach incorporates evaluation
of climate-smart technologies, practices, services, and processes relevant to local climatic risk management and identifies opportunities
for maximizing adaptation gains from synergies across different interventions and recognizing potential maladaptation and trade-offs.
It ensures that these are aligned with local knowledge and link into development plans. This paper describes early results in Asia, Africa,
and Latin America to illustrate different examples of the CSV approach in diverse agroecological settings. Results from initial studies
indicate that the CSV approach has a high potential for scaling out promising climate-smart agricultural technologies, practices, and
services. Climate analog studies indicate that the lessons learned at the CSV sites would be relevant to adaptation planning in a large
part of global agricultural land even under scenarios of climate change. Key barriers and opportunities for further work are also
discussed.
Key Words: adaptation; climate change; climate-smart agriculture; climate-smart villages; resilience; scaling out
INTRODUCTION
and droughts (Lobell et al. 2012, Schellnhuber et al. 2013,
Although global food production has increased in the past few
Rosenzweig et al. 2014). The impacts of climate change on crop
decades, almost 800 million people still have insufficient food,
yields indicate that yield losses may be up to 60%, depending on
especially in South and Southeast Asia, the Caribbean, and Sub-
crop, location, and future climate scenario (Challinor et al. 2014,
Saharan Africa (Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)
Rosenzweig et al. 2014, Asseng et al. 2015). Increasing climatic
2015). Moreover, global food production must double by 2050 to
variability may further complicate agricultural production and
match population and income growth (Alexandratos and
food security as recent studies have shown that almost one-third
Bruinsma 2012), and much of this must happen in Asia and
of yield variability is related to climatic variability (Ray et al.
Africa. These regions are characterized by high population
2015). Agricultural food systems, contributing 19-29% of global
growth, widespread poverty, and low agricultural productivity.
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Vermeulen et al. 2012), are not
Climate change exacerbates the problem.
only vulnerable to global climate change but also the second
Agricultura production systems across the world are expected to
largest contributor to its causes.
change in response to climate change, posing major challenges to
There are many options to reduce the negative impacts of climate
the livelihoods and food security of millions of people
change on agricultural systems, make them resilient to climate
(Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2014).
change, and reduce emissions. In some cases, climate change may
Food production will be impacted due to increased temperatures,
even be beneficial. Options range from change in crop
changed rainfall patterns, and more frequent and intense floods
management, such as sowing time, to change in cropping systems
CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS), Borlaug Institute for South Asia (BISA) and
International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), New Delhi, India, International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), Cali,
Colombia, International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), c/o University of Copenhagen, International Crops Research Institute for the
Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Bamako, Mali, Hoffmann Centre on Sustainable Resource Economy, London, UK, International Rice Research
Institute (IRRI), Hanoi, Vietnam, International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI), Nairobi, Kenya, 'Women in Global Science and Technology
(WISAT), Brighton, Ontario, Canada, "University of Vermont (UVM), Burlington, Vermont, USA, International Research Institute for Climate
and Society (IRI), Columbia University, New York, New York, USA, 12Pontificia Universidad Javeriana, Department of Natural Sciences
and
Mathematics, Cali, Colombia
