M.F. Acevedo et al.
Global Food Security 16 (2018) 127-132
associated food requirements.
environmental research stemming from the green revolution is on the
This dependence on continued economic growth, however, raises a
consequences of the revolution, rather than undertaken to facilitate and
fundamental issue named by some as the 'trophic conundrum'
improve it (Fig. 1).
Czech (2008), based on ecosystem principles, argues that reconciling
Environment friendly technologies for food production have
the conflict between economic growth and environmental conservation
emerged through IDR between natural and social sciences. These
is not feasible. This issue is, essentially, a re-specification of the Mal-
technologies include integrated pest management (IPM), that promotes
thusian argument in biophysical terms. Viewed as a biological food
protecting crops by using natural enemies and thus promoting a healthy
chain, economies convert primary resources into material consumption
environment and people, and natural resource management (NRM)
goods and services, and there is clearly a limit to this process, implying
approaches, such as nutrient and pest management (to minimize ferti-
that continued economic growth can only be associated with continued
lizer and chemicals) and alternate wetting and drying to save irrigation
reduction of environmental quality.
water (Carrijo et al., 2017).
The only apparent reconciliation of this conundrum is innovation
technological change to reduce the impact of our productive activities
4.2. Ecological sciences
on our natural environment. The trophic conundrum argument ignores
human capacity to generate 'capital' as recycled natural resources, in
Ecological disciplines have responded with approaches to research
much the same fashion as non-human biophysical forces and activities
the challenging environmental impacts of food production that con-
recycle rocks, and waste, into soils, and water into streams and aquifers.
strain production itself. These include soil erosion, global climate
Not only do humans recycle natural resources into man-made resources
change, falling water tables and aquifer depletion (Acevedo, 2011).
and assets or 'capitals', including social and human capitals, but they
Reconciliation approaches stemming from ecological perspectives in-
also practice both natural and Lamarckian selection in their habits and
clude land-sparing (Green et al., 2005), sustainable intensification
'inherited' practices adapting and adjusting their consumption mixes
(Tilman et al., 2011), agroecological principles and landscape ecology
to fit with their opportunities and capabilities. Whether we can produce
(Perfecto and Vandermeer, 2010; Benoit et al., 2012). Debate is stil
enough food to feed everyone over the long term, requires more than
unfolding on the benefits and potential consequences of these various
examination of constraints on natural resources, we must also account
promising approaches while calls have been made to strengthen this
for our capacity to adapt and develop technological solutions (Scanlan,
IDR by consideration of social issues including policy and justice
2001).
(Chappell and LaValle, 2011; Gordon et al., 2016; Hatt et al., 2016).
West et al. (2014) find that there are relatively small sets of options
For this purpose, socio-ecological methods can be useful since they
(places, crops, and actions) that could provide enough food to meet the
capture interacting socio-economic and natural systems as complex,
basic needs of continued population growth, while addressing en-
dynamic, and adaptive. These methodologies include values and atti-
vironmental sustainability. They identify "leverage points" that focus
tudes of individuals and policy-making together with natural systems
on reducing the yield gap, reducing environmental impacts, and deli-
dynamics Wittman et al. (2016) frame a reconciliation of food security
vering more food from what is produced. Closing the yield gap to 50%
and biodiversity taking into account socio-ecological system properties
of attainable yields would contribute calories for -850 million people;
at multiple scales (from household to global).
however, regions where closing the gap would be effective are con-
centrated in Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe. Increased water pro-
4.3. Engineering, technology, quantitative approaches, and modeling
ductivity in precipitation-limited regions has the potential to decrease
water consumption by between 8 to 15%. Crops that are used for an-
Together with increased collaboration between natural and social
imal feed and other nonfood uses (e.g., biofuels), diminish the calories
sciences, we need to strengthen the collaboration between engineering
available to humans and result in a "diet gap"; if human-edible crops
and the natural sciences, particularly biology. Better yet, we can benefit
currently used as non-food purposes were re-allocated to feed humans it
from increased integrative ID between engineering, natural, and social
is estimated that it contribute food for an additiona 4 billion people
sciences. The CSISA, with the goal of benefiting > 8 million farmers by
(West et al., 2014). Another opportunity or leverage point identified by
the end of 2020, has highlighted the application of engineering in food
West et al. (2014) is to reduce food waste which currently amounts to
production systems, particularly in sustainable intensification practices
30-50% of food production. Small reductions of waste in a few coun-
(e.g., Kumar et al., 2018). Examples include development of suitable
tries could contribute food for several hundred million additional
agricultural machinery, for irrigation, tillage, harvest, and post-harvest;
people.
adoption is closely associated with infrastructure including electricity
and roads (Biggs and Justice, 2015; Mottaleb et al., 2016). Geospatial
4. IDR on food production and the environment: successes and
technologies (remote sensing and geographic information systems, GIS)
opportunities
play a role in understanding water resources and irrigation (Krupnik
et al., 2017). Integrating crop models with GIS allows exploration of
In this section, we provide examples of IDR approaches that have
water productivity at a variety of spatial scales from the field scale and
been proposed, debated, and utilized to reconcile food production and
the whole system or watershed level.
the environment. Along with these examples, we identify further ID
Agricultural engineering departments, which formed by collabora-
needs and opportunities. We conclude the section with a discussion of
tion among several disciplines, have been major contributors of R&D on
integrative frameworks and identification of funding and publication
food production, agricultura extension, and engaged in research of
barriers.
relationships of agriculture and the environment. Moreover, several
leading US academic institutions with long standing in agricultural
4.1. Agricultural science: natural and social sciences
science and engineering have recently developed innovative biological
and environmental engineering departments and curricula. This type of
Today's agricultural disciplines, such as agronomy, crop science,
initiative enhances collaboration with disciplines closer to biological
agricultural soil science, and agricultural economics evolved at the
sciences, such as genomics and industrial biotechnology.
frontier between plant biology, soil science, climatology, meteorology,
Beyond the traditional engagement of agricultura engineering,
and economics among others (Lele and Norgaard, 2005). Certainly, the
which itself formed by ID activities, other engineering disciplines (such
Green Revolution involved the application of various disciplines (e.g.,
as civil, environmental, and electrical) can contribute by collaboration
agronomy, hydrology, and farm management), but the revolution itself
with natural sciences. For instance, ground-based monitoring systems
hardly engaged in truly IDR. Indeed, much of the social science and
using low cost soil moisture sensors and data collection devices would
129
