M.F. Acevedo et al.
Global Food Security 16 (2018) 127-132
prove very useful for baseline data and follow up water management
present challenges depends critically on ID that includes social science,
interventions (Acevedo, 2011).
to cultivate better futures. We need to take more care over how we do
Modeling socio-ecological systems allow studying land use dy-
things the processes, negotiations and transactions through which we
namics in the context of contemporary hotspots of biodiversity as well
reconcile our narrow self-interests (gilt) with our common social in-
as agricultural landscape patterns (Acevedo et al., 2008). Adopting a
terests (guilt) (Harvey, 2008).
food systems approach also contributes to models taking into account
multiple spatia scales, processes, and levels (Ingram et al., 2010)
4.5. Non-economic social sciences
From the social sciences, economics and geography have established
their role in IDR, contributing quantitative and computational methods
Anthropology, sociology, and political science are very important
such as econometrics, simulation modeling, and geographic informa-
especially when considering policy and impacts, but have been under-
tion systems. For example, Diagne et al. (2013) used an econometric
utilized. These disciplines focus on people's culture (beliefs, norms,
forecast of impacts of research prioritizing the benefits by discipline
values, and practices), institutions, social issues, and governance. Their
(e.g., agronomic, breeding, post-harvest). Quantification and modeling
contributions include framing the right questions to define the real
are also part, together with deliberative fora, of an agenda for agri-
problems; developing appropriate interventions that cater to local
cultural and food research based on ID work and a system-wide ap-
adaptations; facilitating innovation systems (including knowledge
proach that integrates social and environmental issues (Horton et al.,
generation, dissemination and utilization); formulation of appropriate
2017). In particular, working across disciplinary lines can have a
policies; and monitoring and evaluation of feedback mechanisms. Most
transformative effect on each discipline, and allow for integrated
of all, they emphasize engagement and participation, essential if people
thinking to identify, test, and implement technologies and policies
are to take ownership of their futures.
(Horton et al., 2017).
To illustrate the contributions of non-economic social sciences,
Thus, food and environment research requires a holistic or in-
consider two experiences at the International Rice Research Institute
tegrated understanding and synthesis of the interrelationships between
(IRRI). The first relates to promotion of IPM. In the 1970s, IPM did not
the people and natural resource base, and this involves socio-cultural,
gain wide acceptance by farmers when introduced through classroom
economics, technological, ecological and political dynamics operating
training, but started to be adopted more broadly in the 1990s when
at different scales and among different levels of social organizations
promoted by FAO through the farmer field school, which included
(Acevedo, 2011; Karunasagar and Karunasagar, 2016).
farmer participation and experiential learning (Matteson, 2000). The
IRRI's anthropologist formed part of an ID team with entomologists and
4.4. Socio-economics
agricultural economists, that helped improve IRRI's IPM interventions
for smallholder farmers in Southeast Asia, particularly in the Phi-
Comparing concepts across disciplines, borrowing successful con-
lippines (Price and Palis, 2016). The anthropologist included farmers'
cepts from one discipline to another, and building analog theories have
participation, stimulated scientists to interact with farmers, and de-
been traditional approaches to IDR. As an example, consider the ana-
veloped rice IPM training principles that were later used in the farmer
logy between evolution of socio-economic systems and evolution of
field school This anthropological approach made a major difference in
nature (for which the rules for survival are exogenous). In the former,
success of the IPM approaches used now in many Asian countries, and
humans make the rules and laws as well as the tools, so our rules for
around the world (Braun and Duveskog, 2011).
survival are endogenous (Harvey, 2008). Conventional economics lar-
As a second illustration, consider adoption of NRM technologies in
gely ignores the interactions between politics and economics, and the
rice production, which had been a challenge because they require
fundamental differences between 'capital' and finance markets. The
adaptation and collective action. IRRI promoted best practices for NRM
latter consist of the transfer of ownership of assets and wealth between
to help rice farmers achieve increased profitability and food security as
individuals and organizations (with no obvious natural counterparts),
well as to achieve environmental sustainability (Rejesus et al., 2014).
as well as the markets for goods and services (mimicking natural evo-
Anthropological research highlighted the importance of building on
lution and the survival of the fittest).
farmer knowledge, experiential learning, and social capital to facilitate
The common representation of the three major dimensions of 'sus-
adoption of NRM technologies and accelerating its spread for small-
tainability' environmental, economic, and social takes for granted
scale farmers in Asia (Palis et al., 2004).
the political dimension. Moreover, the critical activities of asset de-
velopment, maintenance, accumulation, and ownership establishment
4.6. Integration frameworks
and transfer are also missing. Yet it is precisely these processes and
their outcomes the development and maintenance of our capital
The goal of IDR is to integrate the epistemological traditions of the
stocks, including natural capital in all its multifaceted forms, which
individual disciplines in defining the problem and the methodological
underlie any notion of sustainability and which at least partly de-
comparative advantages of the different disciplines in the development
termine our future capacities and opportunities.
of knowledge (Godfray et al., 2010). As Axinn (1997) pointed out, new
Researchers in the field of ecosystem services often recognize that
knowledge tends to be highly specialized and so fragmented that we
biology rather than economics should indicate the importance of nat-
have been unable to put it together to solve complex problems. Thus,
ural environments to society. Only when our resources become scarce
we need to integrate knowledge generated from individual disciplines,
relative to our needs do we take notice and take steps to seek a solution
and from interactions among disciplines. Clark and Wallace (2015)
(i.e. 'put a price' of the resource). This is a fundamental proposition
advance one possible integration framework implemented as a set of
behind the environmental Kuznets curve (Galeotti et al., 2009), which
operations. These are problem orientation, social process, decision
suggests that economic growth does not necessarily imply continued
process, multiple methods (mobilized from various disciplines), stand-
reduction of environmental quantity and quality. Concerns about con-
point (how researchers relate to the problem), and common interests
serving the environment typically take second place to growth ambi-
(higher-order goals). Such an integration framework makes explicit the
tions during the early stages of economic development, but as wealth
stages of identifying complex issues and the technological solutions to
and knowledge accumulate, so does concern and action over con-
address them. Life cycle thinking and analysis are also seen as a fra-
servation.
mework to work across disciplines in several science domains such as
Our institutions (codes and norms of behavior, rules and laws, and
environmental, technological, social, and economics. This methodology
socio-economic practices) are fundamental in directing both the types
allows identifying problematic issues in food supply chains and prior-
and pace of our technology development. In this sense, meeting the
itizing research goals. It has been demonstrated by application to
130
