Ecology and Society 23(1): 14
htips:llwwwecologyandsocietyorglvol3lissllartl4[
water relations. Crop varieties tolerant of stress, pests, and
diseases, better timing and methods of crop establishment and
need-based water and nutrient applications are also promising.
The CSVs provide the means by which farmers can explore these
synergies. Improvement in soil properties and concomitant yield
benefits due to CSA technologies take a long time (Gathala et al.
2011). The emphasis in CSVs is not on rediscovering or further
testing them, but rather on evaluating and demonstrating their
synergies with services such as weather forecast-based
agroadvisories, crop insurance, and ICT-based knowledge and
market management in current as well as future climate scenarios,
and in bringing a climate lens to their evaluation to understand
how well they deliver on resilience and mitigation.
The literature warns about the dangers of implementing blanket
adaptation strategies without careful consideration of their
potential disadvantages (Magnan et al. 2016). For example,
conservation agriculture can be precarious for some smallholders,
because it does not work in all agroecological settings. In some
cases, the benefits can only be realized by adopting them together
with other technologies (Pittelkow et al. 2014, Brouder and
Gomez-Macpherson 2014) Unintended negative consequences
can undermine CSV efforts if agronomic trials cannot be
evaluated in diverse agroecologies and climate scenarios. This
remains a serious challenge. The CSVs address this issue by
indepth analysis of each technology in present climates and also
assess their effectiveness in rapidly changing future
socioeconomic scenarios (Vervoort et al. 2014). Modeling is
therefore a very important tool in CSVs for supplementing
technology evaluation done in on-farm research platforms It is
also essential to simulate the likely performance of technologies
in future climates and to identify early any potential
maladaptation Such work is in progress (Shirsath et al. 2016).
Synergies across scale: from local evaluation to global policy
needs
The primary unit of CSVs is generally the local administrative
unit it belongs to, which makes it easier for uptake and to replicate
elsewhere. South Asia and Africa sites used a "village" as the
primary unit because scaling up and out was linked with the local
and national government boundaries. This avoided the complex
ownership, management, and financial issues that arise when
using ecological units.
In Latin America and Southeast Asia, however, the approach was
applied at a landscape level as the agricultura systems are highly
diverse, and communities considered that they depend heavily on
resources outside the village (e.g., through ecosystem services). In
Latin America, social dynamics are important in adoption of new
technologies, which are codeveloped and validated by local
farmers. Involving the central government has not always worked,
SO livelihood improvement has often originated from bottom-up
self-empowerment. Therefore, CCAFS has chosen a diversity of
scales to bound CSVs that focus on local concerns, thus increasing
chances of achieving impact.
A major objective of the CSV approach is scaling out local
adaptation plans into existing policy space using strategies that
are appropriate to the region concerned. In South Asia, the focus
was on large-scale piloting for uptake and policy linkage In Latin
America and Africa, the focus was on value-chain linkage,
science-policy platforms, and scaling out to participatory
extension services. The diverse objectives of multiple stakeholders
have always been included, but overall, poverty in developing
countries is what forces farmers to maximize their incomes. In
contrast, national policy makers focus on poverty alleviation as
well as food security.
National and internationa agencies are often interested in GHG
mitigation from agriculture. Modeling can aggregate data from
field trials and extrapolate them to homogenous agroecological
regions, which can make CSVs a useful approach for a variety of
stakeholders. Modeling can also be used to understand their
effectiveness in future climate scenarios.
Results from the different regions show that multistakeholder
platforms and policy-making networks are key to effective up-
scaling. The effectiveness is increased when paired with capacity
enhancement, learning, and innovative approaches to support
farmers' decision making (Westermann et al. 2015). Challenges
remain to promote uptake in the realities of local farming.
Nevertheless, CSVs are a highly effective mechanism for bringing
climate-smart options to scale and for forging links from the local
level to national policy processes.
CONCLUSION AND WAY FORWARD
Climate-smart agriculture has shown promise at the local scale,
but it has still not reached scale in most countries. This could be
due to several barriers. For example, agriculture is not always the
main priority at the local level, where there may be other priorities
such as sanitation, health, or education. Adaptation to climate
change may involve nonagricultural strategies such as migration,
outside employment, and diversification from agriculture. The
latter is already occurring in the population-rich and resource-
scarce countries of South Asia. Poor infrastructure related to
agriculture, including technologies, services, inputs, and access to
markets, is a major issue in subsistence agricultural systems of
Africa. There is also little capital available for investment in
agriculture which limits development of adaptation options such
as demand-based climate information services and crop
insurance. Another key constraint could be that CSA technologies
are not well targeted because trade-offs among interventions are
not well understood. There is often a mismatch and lack of dialog
between science and policy needs in general and specifically about
CSA.
Although many of these are generic barriers that prevent
agriculture development they are particularly relevant to CSVs,
which are dependent on knowledge products. We trust,
nevertheless, that the CSV approach is a step further to overcome
some of these challenges by being more integrative and inclusive.
As we have demonstrated earlier (Fig. 4), the current CSV sites
represent a large agricultural area of the world facing diverse
climatic risks, and these sites will remain crucial for adaptation
learning even in the future. In India and Nepal, CCAFS partners
have adopted the CSV approach and have expanded the number
to thousands of CSVs, where results of CCAFS'S AR4D
approach are applied (Aggarwal et al., unpublished manuscript).
There is still a need for greater evidence for the CSV approach in
different agroecological environments It is especially important
to understand the trade-offs between food security, adaptation,
and mitigation in current and future socioeconomic and climate
scenarios. More research is needed to demonstrate that
