Ecology and Society 23(1): 14
ttpsllwwwecologyandsocietyorglvolz3lisslartl4l
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
Fig. 5. Global representativeness of the CSV network (blue dots). For each pixel, the value reported corresponds to the maximum
similarity between the pixel's climate and all the climate-smart villages.
50N
0o
50S
100oW
09
100E
Longitude
Khatri-Chhetri et al. 2016). These interventions also helped in
climate risk profiles, potential land-use options, and on
avoiding burning of rice straw, which is very common in the CSV
willingness of farmers and local government to participate in the
sites. Minimum tillage with direct seeded rice increased crop yields
CSV process (Foerch et al. 2013). A detailed description of the
by 30-35% and net income by 7-34% and reduced GHG emissions
CSV approach in the Kaffrine site is provided.
by 9-38% (Jat et al. 2014). Water-use efficiency also increased by
30%. Laser land leveling technology, which helps improve water
Baseline: Agriculture, which constitutes the main economic
activity, is primarily rain fed and subsistence. Major staple crops
and nutrient use efficiency, has increased crop yield by more than
7% (Aryal at al. 2015).
are sorghum, millet, cowpea, and groundnut in Burkina Faso,
Mali, Niger, and Senegal, whereas in Ghana, maize and yam are
The portfolio of CSA practices and technologies demonstrated
major crops. Intra- and interseasonal rainfall variability (Jalloh
multiplier effects on crop yields, nutrient use efficiency, and
et al. 2013) declining soil fertility (Kamara et al 2013), and land
emissions reduction. The benefit of weather-based agroadvisories
degradation are the major challenges for agriculture systems in
and insurance in combination with technology options in
much of West Africa. Specific climatic risks in Kaffrine CSV
irrigated conditions of Haryana CSV remains unquantified The
include droughts, floods, and winds. Poor harvests, postharvest
portfolio of laser leveling, zero tillage, direct seeding rice, and
losses due to pests and diseases, degradation of farmlands due to
precision nutrient management has been further evaluated by
wind and water erosion, and decline in livestock production and
farmers in their own fields. Modelingi is now being used intensively
availability of markets were identified as additional major
to assess the suitability of the portfolio of interventions in current
constraints to agriculture.
and future climates (Shirsath et al. 2016).
CSV design: The Toolkit for Planning, Monitoring and
Scaling out and up: The resultant portfolio of options proposed
Evaluation of Climate Change Adaptation (ToP-MECCA) was
by CSV approach has been integrated with the agricultura
used to identify a list of suitable candidate interventions for each
development strategy of Haryana state, with the government now
of the sites (Somda et al. 2011) In addition, mapping of local
scaling out successful interventions to 500 other villages. These
resources and climatic hazards and a gender-sensitive
sites have become learning platforms for CSA in South Asia as
vulnerability analysis assisted in understanding the needs of
well. State and even national governments have committed to
different groups. The selected interventions for participatory
scaling out the CSV approach to more than 2000 villages. In
testing included the use of climate information and services water
Nepal, the government has announced the implementation of
harvesting, microdosing of fertilizers, mulching crop rotation,
CSVs to strengthen climate adaptation in the country's agriculture
soil tillage, rangeland rehabilitation, community empowerment
sector.
(demonstration farms, seed multiplication farms, exposure, and
income generation activities), introduction of drought-tolerant
The CSV approach in West Africa
seed/breeds, farmer-managed natural regeneration (FMNR), and
The AR4D CSV sites in West Africa are located in Cinzana (Mali),
planting suitable agroforestry tree species. Research and extension
Fakara (Niger), Kaffrine (Senegal), Lawra-Jirapa (Ghana), and
services, meteorological services, NGOs, private sector, local,
Yatenga (Burkina Faso) These sites were selected based on
regional, and international organizations, and community
organizations were key players in the CSVs (Bayala et al. 2016).
