M.F. Acevedo et al.
Global Food Security 16 (2018) 127-132
Pop 9.6B
economies available to the poor farmers in south Asia and Sub-Saharan
Agricultura output
Africa where R&D is still lagging (Pardey et al., 2016). IDR on effective
growth 2.25% yr1
Agricultural output
technology adoption by farmers should accompany the transfer of such
Pop.
needs to double
R&D output.
Cultivated land
Cultivated land constant
increased
3. Prospective futures: the first half of this century
Pop. 3B
20%
Reduce percent people
11%
undernourished
Percent people
undernourished declined
By 2050, human population may grow to 9.6 billion or 2.0 people
FMDG
ha of cultivated land (per 2010 land area when we had 1.5 people
which calls for sizable increases in agricultural production
1960
1990
2000
201o
2015
2050
(Bruinsma, 2009) (Fig. 1). Increasing food production requires ex-
Prospective future
Historical perspective
panding cultivated area (extensification) or increasing yields on pre-
sently cultivated land (intensification); the latter either by direct in-
Green Revolution
Doubly Green Revolution
creased yields, or through changes to crop mix (fiber, feed, and biofuel).
As Hertel (2011) notes, 77% of the growth in global crop production
ID research on consequences:
Goal-directed ID research needed:
over the last half century resulted from increased yields, 9% from in-
social and environmental
social and environmental
creased cropping intensity, and only 14% from expansion of crop area.
Fig. 1. Historical perspective leading to prospective future. Pop. Human population.
Bruinsma (2009) projects that only 9% of future output increases (to
FMDG E First Millennium Development Goal.
2050) may come from extensification.
Indeed, it is commonly accepted that there is little scope for ex-
2. Historical perspective: the last half of the past century
pansion of agricultural land without encroaching on land devoted to
environmenta protection. Available land is unevenly distributed be-
In the 1960s, the accelerated growth of the world's population led to
tween regions and countries, being skewed against those countries that
predictions of increased famines and mortality, and of reaching the
have most need to raise production (Godfray et al., 2010). Irrigated
limits of growth within a century (Fig. 1) (Meadows et al., 1972). The
agriculture on prime land has relieved some pressure on land expan-
Malthusian proposition that food demands, growing exponentially with
sion, but many irrigation systems are performing below their potential,
population, would exceed food supplies, growing only arithmetically,
calling for improvements in water use efficiency (HLPE, 2015) and the
seemed inevitable. Yet in the last 50 years, world population has more
global expansion of irrigated area has stalled to 0.6% per year after
than doubled while the number of world's starving has not increased,
growing twice as much in the 1990s.
albeit remaining obscenely large.
Yields can be improved with new varieties, produced with sustained
Our food production per head has generally increased and the prices
R&D, better capable of coping with adverse conditions, but they can
of food had not shown a substantial tendency to increase but they may
also be improved by closing the 'yield gap' the difference between the
start to do so according to recent signals (FAO, 2015). Since 1961,
yield potential of crops in a given agro-ecological and climatic zone and
global agricultural output has increased by 2.25% per year, while the
the yields actually achieved by farmers in those zones. Although much
increase in land devoted to farming has only increased by 0.24% per
of irrigated agriculture around the world, and much of developed
year (Fig. 1) (Pardey et al., 2012). Global population increased by 1.7%
country agriculture show rather small yield gaps, the gaps remain very
per year, but the people engaged in farming only grew by 1.2% per
substantial (-50%) in rain-fed agriculture, in much of Africa and of
year. This apparently good performance has occurred through geo-
Eastern Europe. If these gaps could be closed, some analysts conclude
graphical shifts in global production; most of the increase of the value
that we can feed another 2 billion with present technologies, and with
of food production per head, has happened in the upper middle-income
present cultivated land areas (Hertel, 2011).
countries (Pardey et al., 2012). For instance, in 1961, Russia accounted
The parts of the world exhibiting substantial yield gaps are also
for 15% of global wheat production and was the world's largest pro-
those regions lacking market infrastructure and supply chains.
ducer, but by 2008, Russia only accounted for just over 8% of global
Furthermore, closing these gaps requires more inputs and resources,
production, with India and China together accounting for almost 29%
which will become more constraining in the future. Nevertheless, the
(up from 12% in 1961).
emerging price signals should encourage more sustainable adaptations
The achievements of the last 50 years largely due to the Green
and innovations, providing there is sufficient investment in both agri-
Revolution (based on higher-yield varieties of rice, wheat, and maize)
cultural R&D, infrastructure and institutional reform.
have also caused adverse effects on the environment and human health
Poverty and lack of access to food are as important as limited food
(Kedia and Palis, 2008). Negative effects on agro-ecological functions
production in determining food insecurity (Scanlan, 2001). Areas with
have in turn resulted in decreased crop yields (Boutsen, 2009). Con-
the greatest water loss and land degradation correspond with areas of
cerned that the pace of yield improvement had slowed by the turn of
the highest rural poverty and food insecurity (deVries et al., 2003).
the century, Conway (1999) proposes a 'Doubly Green Revolution'
Improving food security while limiting impacts on ecosystems calls for
(Fig. 1) which would be more productive and more 'green' (in en-
both the development of sustainable practices and the appropriate
vironmental terms) than the first, and targeted towards the poor.
economic and institutional environment (FAO, 2011).
Indeed, Pardey et al. (2012) provide evidence of the slowdown in
Providing enough, for all, forever, requires more than generating
world crop yield growth and question whether current trends in agri-
the capacities of supplying food. It also requires adaptation and in-
cultural R&D are likely to reverse the decrease in productivity. Global R
novations in what we consume, and in our abilities to generate sus-
&D spending has grown impressively in real terms (2005 purchasing
tainable incomes to re-create worthwhile livelihoods. Aside from the
power parity, PPP, rates), but this growth has largely happened in the
impressive growth in global food production over the past half century,
middle-income countries, especially Brazil, India and China. Dis-
a major factor in the reduction of relative food insecurity has been the
appointingly, there is little sign of strong spending growth rates in sub-
growth in incomes providing the previously poor with the where-
Saharan Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, which indicates a
withal to purchase food. Without growth in incomes, we condemn
growing divide with the poorest countries falling farther behind
people to food insecurity, poverty, and ill health. Economic growth is
(Pardey et al., 2012). A major contribution to food production would be
therefore a necessary requirement for both food and livelihood security,
to make results from R&D spending in high income and middle-income
and will lead inevitably to both greater demands on our increasingly
scarce land resources as well as to substantial changes in diets and
128
