K. Abdalla et al.
Catena 167 (2018) 284-292
4
grasslands is important for water security and economic emancipation
of rural communities, in addition to climate change mitigation.
The study results showing a general decrease of soil temperature
and gross soil CO2 emission with grassland degradation (indicated by
3
reduction in grass basal cover) did not confirm the proposed hypothesis.
However, soil CO2 emission relative to SOCs and produced biomass still
showed a general increase with grassland degradation suggesting that
2
other controlling factors, than soil temperature, had greater effects.
Further studies covering diverse environmental conditions are neces-
sary to identify and quantify the impact of factors with the most sig-
nificant impact on grassland soil CO2 emissions relative to SOCs and
1
biomass produced.
5. Conclusions
0
ND
MD
HD
Grassland degradation
Three main conclusions can be drawn from this study performed on
South African grasslands with the aim was to evaluate the impact of loss
Fig. 7. Mean + standard error of aboveground biomass from non degraded
of grass basal cover on soil CO2 emissions. The first one is that grassland
(ND), moderately degraded (MD) and highly degraded (HD) grassland.
degradation significantly decreases gross soil CO2 emission (the emis-
Different lower case letter indicates significant different (P < 0.05) between
sions per surface area), with current results showing 11 and 62% lower
the degradation gradients. N = 18.
emission in moderate (25 < grass basal cover < 50%) and highly
degraded (0 < grass basal cover < 5%) than non-degraded grassland
(Fig. 5). Li et al. (2015) pointed that lower soil temperature results in
(grass basal cover: 100%), which correlated significantly with soil or-
lower mineralization rates of soil organic materials, hence lower soil
ganic carbon and nitrogen stocks. The second conclusion is that grass-
CO2 emissions. In addition, soil environments characterised by desic-
land degradation increases soil CO2 emission relative to soil carbon
cated conditions and very low soil organic materials are likely to emit
stocks, which imply decreasing soil organic matter protection against
lower CO2 amounts due to lower soil microbial activities (Fontaine
decomposers as grass basal cover decreases. The current study results
et al., 2003).
showed at least 41% more soil CO2 emission relative to soil carbon
The moderately and highly degraded grasslands also emitted sig-
stocks in degraded than non-degraded grassland The third conclusion
nificantly higher soil CO2 emissions relative to amount of aboveground
is that grassland degradation also increase soil CO2 emission relative to
biomass produced per year than the non-degraded grassland (Table 1
biomass produced, with the study showing 613% more CO2 emission
and Fig. 3), despite significantly lower SOCs (Fig. 4A) and biomass
relative to biomass produced in degraded than non-degraded grassland.
production (Fig. 7) than non-degraded grasslands. The foregoing result
Thus, grassland degradation has a significant negative C footprint.
suggests for every unit of C stabilized in the soil and aboveground
However, these results still need validation by performing longer-term
biomass produced, non-degraded grasslands emit less soil CO2 in
investigations at other study sites with different soil and environmental
comparison to degraded grasslands. In other words, non-degraded
conditions. In particular, research is required to investigate further the
grasslands are economical than degraded grasslands with respect to C
possible underlying reasons for enhanced soil CO2 emission relative to
usage. Given that grassland degradation is associated with other en-
soil organic carbon stocks following grassland degradation. Such in-
vironmental challenges such as soil erosion and limited biomass pro-
vestigations could focus on the potential roles of (i) decreasing ag-
ductivity to support livestock production, proper management of
gregate stability; (iii) production of easily decomposable organic
axis 2
33
(A)
axis 3
23
axis 1
44
axis 2
33
(B)
1
1
CO2-SOCs
Gross CO2.
Gross CO2
0
0
axis 1
biomass
axis 3
CO2-SOCs
O2-biomass
-1
-1
-1
0
1
-1
0
1
Principal component
2st Principal component
Fig. 8. Principal components analysis (PCA) scatter diagrams for gross CO2 emissions (gross CO2), CO2 emissions relative to soil organic carbon stocks (CO2-SOCs)
and CO2 relative to produced biomass (CO2-biomass) as supplementary variables and selected factors as active variables. (A) scatter diagram with the two first PCA
axes (axis 1 and 2); (B) scatter diagram with axis 2 and 3.
291
