Ecology and Society 23(1): 14
ttpsllwwwecologyandsocietyorglvol23lisslartl4l
CSA practices and
technologies
Loca and national
public and private
institutions
Climate and
ag-development
finance
and land use to adjust to new climates (Porter et al. 2014). Many
technologies and practices can increase crop yields, farm income,
and eefficiency and may reduce GHG emissions (Khatri-
Chhetri et al. 2017)
Climate-smart agriculture (CSA) aims to increase sustainable
agricultural production by adapting to and building resilience to
climate change. It focuses on food security and national
development goals and, where possible, it also aims to reduce or
remove GHG emissions (Lipper et al. 2014, Steenwerth et al.
2014) Recent analyses indicate that although several CSA
programs and on-farm studies were successful, there is only weak
uptake of many innovative CSA practices and technologies
(Campbell et al. 2014, Westermann et al. 2015). For example, new
water management practices and technologies in India were
adopted by only 12% of farmers in the last 40 years (Palanisami
et al. 2015). Similarly, adoption of mitigation options in
agriculture is very low in the developing countries (Thornton and
Herrero 2010).
One factor that contributes to low uptake of new technologies is
that development practitioners lack evidence of how the
innovations can be practically incorporated into agricultural
systems. They need to know how farmers can achieve synergies
and minimize trade-offs in implementing multiple interventions
on real farms. Climate change complicates this because its impacts
will vary across locations. Effective implementation therefore
requires an integrated approach in which science, technology, and
decision making interact with local socioeconomic conditions
and cultures (Steenwerth et al. 2014).
To generate the evidence on the efficacy of climate-smart options,
the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
(CGIAR) research program on Climate Change, Agriculture and
Food Security (CCAFS) is implementing a climate-smart village
(CSV) approach in Asia, Africa, and Latin America (Aggarwal
et al. 2013). This paper describes the conceptual framework of
the CSV approach and the ongoing processes involved in
designing and implementing them. The CSV approach is a key
part of the agriculture research-for-development (AR4D) agenda
to address climate change challenges for food security (Campbell
et al. 2016). We illustrate different examples of the CSV approach
across a range of vulnerable agroclimatic regions and discuss
some emerging lessons learnt.
THE CLIMATE-SMART VILLAGE APPROACH
The CSV approach is an AR4D approach to test, through
participatory methods, technological and institutional options
for dealing with climate change in agriculture It aims to generate
evidence at local scales of what climate-smart agricultural options
work best, where, why, and how, and use this evidence to draw
out lessons for policy makers, agricultural development
practitioners, and investors from local to global levels. The testing
is done through a multistakeholder collaborative platform at CSV
sites. The sites are a cluster of villages, small landscapes, or 10
km2 grids. Every CSV site has its own theory of change (ToC; a
narrative description of the logical causal chain from research
activities to impact) linked to national priorities to ensure that it
is consistent with initiatives and actions across different scales.
The process builds on Lipper et al.'s (2014) theory of climate-
smart agriculture (CSA)
The strategy of the CSV approach is to:
1. Understand the effectiveness of a variety of CSA options
(practices, technologies, services, programs, and policies) not
only to enhance productivity and raise incomes, but also to
build climate resilience, increase adaptive capacity, and
wherever possible, reduce GHG emissions;
2. Develop (no regrets) solutions in anticipation of future
climate change impacts;
3. Understand the socioeconomic, gender, and biophysical
constraints and enablers for adoption; and
4. Test and identify successful adoption incentives, finance
opportunities, institutional arrangements, and scaling out/
up mechanisms while ensuring alignment with local and
national knowledge, institutions, and development plans.
Figure 1 illustrates the major components of a typical CSV
approach Climate-smart agriculture interventions are considered
in a broad sense by including practices, technologies, climate
information services, insurance. institutions, policies, and finance.
There is no fixed package of interventions or a one-size-fits-all
approach Options differ based on the CSV site, its agroecological
characteristics level of development, and capacity and interest of
the farmers and of the local government. The results of the CSV
approach are usually a portfolio of CSA options and institutional
and financial mechanisms that enable their successful adoption.
Promising innovations are then available to be scaled out by the
national/subnational governments, nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs), and private-sector actors in regions with similar
agroecological conditions.
Fig. 1. Key components of a CSV AR4D approach.
Climate information
services and insurance
National and
Empowered
subnational plans
farming
and policies
communities
Farmers'
knowledge
